AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanLe’Veon Bell, the superstar running back who sat out last season in a salary dispute with the Pittsburgh Steelers, has agreed to a free-agent deal with the Jets.Bell, 27, is considered one of the most versatile offensive players in the N.F.L. After ESPN broke the news early Wednesday that he had come to terms with the Jets, Bell confirmed it on Twitter and Instagram.I’m back in the green baby, let’s get itESPN has reported that the deal is for four years and $52.5 million, with $35 million guaranteed. The deal cannot be officially completed until the N.F.L.’s new league year begins on Wednesday afternoon.Bell’s anticipated average salary of $13.25 million would make him the league’s second-highest-paid running back, behind Todd Gurley of the Los Angeles Rams. But that could be a bargain with Bell, as other than the question marks created by a year away from the game he represents a dramatic upgrade for the Jets, a team that ranked 26th in the N.F.L. in rushing last year.Selected by Pittsburgh with the 48th pick of the 2013 draft, Bell had a solid rookie campaign before exploding in 2014 with 2,215 yards from scrimmage and 11 touchdowns. While his time on the field has been limited somewhat by drug and substance abuse suspensions — along with his full-season holdout — he has 7,996 yards from scrimmage in 62 career games.With the Jets he will be the centerpiece of an offense designed by the team’s new coach, Adam Gase, the mastermind of a Denver Broncos offense that averaged 37.9 points a game with Peyton Manning in 2013. (Under Gase, the Miami Dolphins finished in the bottom half of the league in scoring the past three seasons.)Bell will serve as the Jets’ top running back, but he will also be one of their most talented receivers. That will help take some of the burden off quarterback Sam Darnold, who is still developing after being selected with the No. 3 overall pick last year. In Darnold’s uneven rookie season, the Jets had a running back surpass 100 rushing yards in a game only two times.In Bell, the Jets are anticipating production out of the backfield unlike anything the team has seen since Curtis Martin retired. Martin, a Hall of Fame running back, twice surpassed 1,800 yards from scrimmage in a season for the Jets — the only two times in franchise history that a player has done so. Bell easily topped that figure in three of his last four seasons.Bell’s decision, which had been eagerly anticipated since the league’s so-called legal tampering period opened on Monday, officially ends a stalemate that resulted in the unusual choice by a player to give up an entire season of his prime. While Bell had consistently thrived on the field in Pittsburgh, he regularly clashed with the front office off it, believing he was being dramatically underpaid once his versatility was considered.After a strong 2017 season, in which he rushed for 1,291 yards and led the N.F.L. with 406 touches, Bell turned down a contract offer that was reported at five years and $70 million, citing the small amount of guaranteed money in the deal. He then refused to play on a franchise tag that would have paid him $14.5 million in 2018, hoping that his conviction could earn a shot at unrestricted free agency.The gambit paid off, at least in terms of freeing him from Pittsburgh’s control, as the Steelers decided they would not use the franchise tag on him again, making him a free agent. In exchange for his signing with the Jets, Pittsburgh will receive a compensatory pick in this year’s draft.The Steelers, who adequately replaced Bell with James Conner and then barely missed the playoffs, have now lost two All-Pro offensive players this off-season. On Saturday the team agreed to trade Antonio Brown, its top wide receiver, to the Oakland Raiders for two midround draft picks.Bell, who grew up in Ohio and starred in college at Michigan State, will not have to wait long to get a chance to prove himself against his former team. The Jets are scheduled to host the Steelers at some point during the season, though an exact date for the game has yet to be announced.Advertisement