AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherIf you sat through Sunday’s football-related entertainment, you could be forgiven for swearing off Super Bowls forever.That might be too precipitous. Quite a few recent games have been thrillers with lots of touchdowns and exciting moments.Just last year the Philadelphia Eagles won their first championship in half a century in a 74-point classic. The year before the New England Patriots and Atlanta Falcons battled into overtime. In the last 10 years, we have had Patriots 28-Seattle Seahawks 24, Baltimore Ravens 34-San Francisco 49ers 31 and Giants 21-Patriots 17.Sunday was more of a throwback to the late 1980s and early ’90s, when the Denver Broncos or the Buffalo Bills were getting demolished year after year and Super Bowls let the public down as frequently as Star Wars prequels.And come on now. Was Sunday’s game even really all that bad?Yes. Yes it was.But with the help of a time machine, or something, maybe we can tweak the past just a little and make Sunday’s game just a little more like the recent squeakers.Close your eyes and imagine:The New Orleans Saints brought the N.F.L. title to Bourbon Street with a 49-41 victory over the New England Patriots destined to be a modern classic.Drew Brees led New Orleans’s high-powered offense, which scored 40 or more points six times this season, to one of its most potent results, throwing for six touchdowns.The Saints had found their way into the Super Bowl after Los Angeles Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman was called for eight different penalties after his helmet-to-helmet hit on Tommylee Lewis in the N.F.C. championship game. The Saints scored on the next play, giving the Rams too far to come back.Brees showed veteran poise on Sunday by repeatedly finding Lewis and Michael Thomas. “When you’re a young quarterback who has never been to the big game before, you will make mistakes against a great defense,” Brees said. “Thankfully no one like that faced the Patriots today.”At 41, Tom Brady defied his years with an aerial show of his own that fell just short, taking advantage of a Saints defense that almost seemed to want him to score, just to get the ball back in Brees’s hands.Only special teams fans were disappointed, as neither team ever sent out the punting unit.Here are the fans celebrating:The halftime show by Taylor Swift also got great reviews.The Kansas City Chiefs won their first title since the days of Len Dawson with a 54-51 triumph over the Rams.Patrick Mahomes threw for five touchdowns and ran for one more.The Chiefs had made it into the big game after an overtime victory in the A.F.C. championship; they won the coin toss and marched down the field to score, never giving the Patriots a touch.Every time Mahomes got the ball on Sunday there was a sense that something exciting was about to happen: a no-look pass, a rocket fired into a tiny space, an improvisation that made something out of nothing. About the only thing you knew you weren’t going to get was a punt.The Rams gave as good as they got, with Jared Goff picking apart the unheralded Chiefs defense for three touchdowns of his own. Todd Gurley provided fans of the running game something to cheer with a 100-yard effort.Chiefs Coach Andy Reid kept things interesting, nearly throwing the game away late with puzzling clock management, repeatedly going into full huddle despite trailing with time expiring. But the error just made Mahomes’s eventual touchdown scramble with zero seconds on the clock all the more thrilling.The Chiefs now look poised to become the sport’s new dynasty with the 23-year-old Mahomes ready to star for years to come. But the ageless Brady and the Patriots, the resurgent Eagles or Steelers, the Saints and Rams will have something to say as well. It looks like a golden age of Super Bowls is upon us.The Chiefs hometown paper celebrated:The halftime show by Cardi B. also got great reviews.Now wasn’t that more satisfying? Maybe next year.Advertisement