AdvertisementSupported byOhio State 28, Washington 23 | Rose BowlBy Mike TierneyPASADENA, Calif. — A colleague once advised Urban Meyer to find a moment amid each game to savor. At Ohio State, the regimented coach customarily would remove his headset between the third and fourth quarters to soak in the university marching band blasting the vintage rock tune “Hang On Sloopy.”The better the Buckeyes were playing, the longer he would listen.On Tuesday, as Meyer’s dominant squad built what appeared to be an irreversible lead over Washington in the 105th Rose Bowl, the coach was able to take in every last note.“This has been on the bucket list,” Meyer said of winning his first Rose Bowl. “I love all the other bowls, but being a Big Ten guy from Ohio and watching the Rose Bowl in the ’70s with Archie Griffin, it’s everything everybody says it was.”In what Meyer maintains was a football coaching farewell that came as a result of his own health concerns, the No. 6 Buckeyes withstood a late rally by No. 9 Washington to prevail, 28-23, and make a mild case that omitting them from the College Football Playoff in lieu of Oklahoma (slow out of the starting blocks against Alabama) and Notre Dame (glued to the blocks against Clemson) was an oversight.As for Meyer, himself, he departs with a somewhat complicated legacy, with great achievements on the field tarnished to a degree by things that occurred away from it.He won three national titles — one with Ohio State and two with the University of Florida — and his winning percentage of .853 is unmatched among active coaches. Yet the school suspended him three games this season, concluding he mishandled the issue of an assistant coach accused of domestic abuse. And at his previous stop, in Florida, there were a considerable number of players involved in off-field misconduct.So while there is no denying his genius as a coach, to his critics, at least, the reports that he would start his retirement by helping instruct a business class at Ohio State on leadership and character seemed like satire. In fact, he will be doing just that.Meanwhile, against Washington on Tuesday, Meyer’s Buckeyes (13-1) corrected this season’s main deficiency — yielding long gains on the ground. Coming into the game, Ohio State had allowed six rushing touchdowns of more than 75 yards, the most by any Football Bowl Subdivision defense since 2003.The Huskies (10-4), however, scrounged out just 3.6 yards per carry, with their lengthiest running play covering 19 yards. They resorted to a tailback pass by Myles Gaskin in the fourth quarter to finally put a touchdown on the scoreboard.Washington’s quarterback, Jake Browning, helped generate two additional scoring drives in the fourth quarter, both on Gaskin rushes, the latter with just 42 seconds left in the game. But a failed 2-point conversion and an onside kick attempt easily recovered by Ohio State closed out the comeback attempt and sent Meyer into retirement with a meaningful victory.Pressed to reveal his thoughts in the last minute, Meyer said, “It was, ‘Are you kidding me?’ until we got the onside kick.”Last week, Meyer labeled his quarterback Dwayne Haskins’ two previous games — 11 touchdowns passes, 895 yards — as among “the best performances in college football history.”Yet, on the Buckeyes’ first scoring drive on Tuesday, all but three of the initial 65 yards came on runs, mainly by Mike Weber, who carried the ball four times for 52 yards on the drive.With the Huskies anticipating another run, Haskins then hit a wide-open Parris Campbell for a 12-yard touchdown, providing an early validation for Ohio State having named Ryan Day, the team’s offensive coordinator, as Meyer’s successor.Washington untangled itself from a dreadful start offensively — two three-and-outs — and drove to a field goal, only to concede another lengthy march by Ohio State that ended in a touchdown on Haskins’ 19-yard toss to Johnnie Dixon.The Huskies’ offense was so quiet in the first half that Browning’s shining occasion was a punt out of a shotgun formation that was downed at Ohio State’s 3-yard line.Still another three-and-out by Washington on its next series enabled the Buckeyes to flip the field. For Haskins’ third scoring strike, they needed to motor only 47 yards, with Haskins finishing the drive with a 1-yard touchdown pass to Rashod Berry.The scoreboard said 21-3 at halftime. The feeling in the stadium said the gap was wider, and the perception remained so when Washington went backward on consecutive snaps from Ohio State’s 32-yard line after accepting the second-half kickoff.Seven plays later, the Buckeyes seemingly put to bed any doubt that Meyer would not exit on a high note. Reversing the script of the first score, Haskins threw for all but two of the 77 yards the Buckeyes traveled, and then handed off to J.K. Dobbins for a 3-yard touchdown run.Meyer’s prior departure from coaching was caused by excessive stress. Though reduced, it has not been eradicated. Asked recently if he feels nervous before games, Meyer said, “Deathly ill might be more appropriate.”After Tuesday’s game, Meyer half-joked that in previous years a cellphone would have been at his ear as he walked off the Rose Bowl field, with the coach seeking updates on recruits.“The new guy has got to worry about that,” he said.But while there are few who would be surprised if Meyer, a mere 54, ends up going back into coaching at some point down the road, for the moment, he seemed interested in savoring this victory.“While we enjoyed tonight, I don’t believe I’m going to coach again,” he said.Advertisement