AdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaABU DHABI — Qatar forward Almoez Ali joined a small group of record-makers at the Asian Cup last week, becoming only the fourth player in the tournament’s history to score four goals in a single game. His exploits in his country’s 6-0 thrashing of North Korea were cheered by just one fan sporting the Gulf country’s colors.That was one more than team officials expected.That is because the Asian Cup is being played this month in the United Arab Emirates, one of the main players in the punishing Saudi Arabia-led blockade of Qatar that began in 2017 and already has led to inconveniences for visiting Qatari officials, visiting Qatari journalists and, clearly, given their tiny number, visiting Qatari fans. The looming specter of the political dispute has produced a surreal air around Qatar’s matches, one that is expected to be repeated at its showdown against Saudi Arabia on Thursday at Zayed City Sports Stadium.Because of the geopolitical implications, that match could be one of the most-watched games of the tournament, though it will most likely not include many, if any, Qataris in the stands. The official attendance figure for the Qatar-North Korea game on Sunday in Al Ain was announced as 452, though several people who attended said the actual number most likely was closer to 100. Similarly low attendance figures have been a feature of the tournament, Asia’s most important soccer championship, in its first two weeks.The one flag-waving fan in Qatar’s maroon colors Sunday was a South Korean woman who had traveled from her homeland to root for Qatar, according to Qatari officials. Two other unidentified men sat nearby behind a Qatari flag, a rare spot of color in a sea of white seats. The sparse crowd only avoided setting another tournament record, for the lowest attendance, because of two groups of fans bused in by North Korea’s delegation.The soporific atmosphere most likely will give way to something far different and far more political when Qatar and Saudi Arabia meet to decide the winner of Group E. The countries have not met on the soccer field since diplomatic ties between the countries were severed 18 months ago, but the game’s location in this Emirate capital adds another layer of tension.“That’s almost more difficult to imagine than the U.S. national soccer team playing Iran in Tehran,” said Neil Quilliam, a senior research fellow with the Middle East and North Africa program at London’s Chatham House, a British foreign-affairs think tank. “There will be some jittery people in Qatar hoping their players make it home.”Political intrigue large and small is nothing new at the Asian Cup. On Tuesday, Palestine played Jordan, which has been home to Palestinian refugees for over half a century. A day later, Iran faced Iraq. Yemen, which is on the brink of famine amid a prolonged Saudi-led assault on Houthi rebels, is among the first-time participants in the event.This year’s tournament also has been accompanied by significant issues in the soccer world. The A.F.C.’s president, Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa, a member of the Bahraini royal family, has been assailed over his silence about the fate of Hakeem al-Araibi, a refugee soccer player of Bahraini descent who was detained in Thailand on the orders of Bahrain’s government. And the event is the latest staging point for discussions related to FIFA President Gianni Infantino’s desire to expand the 2022 Qatar World Cup to 48 teams, a move that almost certainly would require Qatar to share games with countries currently leading the blockade, as well as a simmering battle for the leadership of the A.F.C. Sheikh Salman faces two challengers: one from Qatar, and another from the U.A.E.But the main crisis at this year’s Asian Cup remains the ongoing blockade of Qatar. The U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia have been in lock step in their opposition to Qatar, which they have accused of financing terrorism, interfering in their domestic affairs and growing too close to Iran. The countries were especially incensed by Qatar’s support for a range of activists across the Arab world, including the political Islamists that other Gulf monarchs consider a threat to their rule.Qatar’s leaders have denied the accusations of interference and of financing terrorism, arguing that it is their country’s independence that has most angered their neighbors. But the blockade’s effects on the tournament is not difficult to spot.Saoud al-Mohannadi, a Qatari and the Asian Football Confederation’s senior official responsible for the tournament, was initially barred from traveling to the U.A.E. on the eve of the competition. Initially prevented from boarding a flight from Oman, he was allowed through a day later. Five journalists cleared to cover the event by the A.F.C. weren’t so lucky; they were turned back upon arrival, though one photographer was allowed in. (Saudi Arabia has 47 print reporters accredited for the tournament.)Local organizers and the Abu Dhabi Sports Council were not made available for interviews. Neither group responded to emailed questions related to the tournament.Complicating matters further is the tournament’s television agreement. Qatar’s beIN Sports holds the broadcast rights for the event, but several top hotels, including the guest rooms of the Fairmont, where A.F.C.’s official delegation is based, and the hotels adjacent to the stadiums refuse to air beIN’s lineup of channels.Since the start of the crisis, beIN’s broadcasts — matches for which it has paid hundreds of millions of dollars for the exclusive rights — have been pirated by entity known as beoutQ, which Qatar contends is based in Saudi Arabia. As it did during last summer’s World Cup, beoutQ is broadcasting the Asian Cup in its entirety, overlaying beIN’s logo with its own.Asian Cup organizers have issued statements of frustration and threats of legal action, with little effect. In Bahrain, Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad al-Khalifa, a son of the country’s ruler, posted a video on Instagram this week of his reaction to his country’s last-minute triumph against India on Monday. His chosen broadcaster, made clear by the logo on the screen, was beoutQ. (The A.F.C’s president is a member of Bahrain’s royal family.)On the eve of the game, beIN launched a website that outlined evidence against the channel, which it describes as a Saudi-supported operation.The broader dispute has been visible inside stadiums, too; at several, the partnership between the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia in opposition to Qatar is on display in banners that display both countries’ flags and a set of shaking hands.What will happen on the field Thursday at the Zayed Sports City Stadium remains anyone’s guess. At an under-19 game between the U.A.E. and Qatar in October, the Emirati captain refused to shake hands with his Qatari counterpart at the pregame coin toss.Qatari officials and players have tried to play down the political cloud hanging over their presence. They say they are focused on improving ahead of the next men’s World Cup, which Qatar will host in 2022.On Tuesday, Qatar’s players appeared to be in good humor as they ran out to practice around sunset at a local field in Abu Dhabi, joking and teasing one another as a group of Spanish coaches put them through their paces. Apart from having no fans present at its games, the team has not faced any issues with the A.F.C. and local tournament organizers, according to a spokesman for the Qatari soccer federation, Ali al-Salat. But the players were briefed to avoid discussing politics ahead of the Saudi Arabia match.“You might look at it as special, but in our case it’s not that special,” midfielder Salem al Hajri said in a short interview as he prepared to join Tuesday’s training session.Asked about the political implications of the game, Saudi Arabia’s captain and its coach both demurred, saying those thoughts were for others.“We are thinking exclusively on the sports part of the game tomorrow,” said Juan Antônio Pizzi, Saudi Arabia’s Argentine coach. “Whatever the surrounding issues, we are not entitled to talk about things off the field.”Al Hajri and his Qatar teammates are guaranteed at least one supporter. The South Korean woman at the team’s first two matches, Mary Lee, confirmed that she would attend. Her relationship with the team is a curious one; al-Salat said she has links to the Qatar embassy in South Korea.“We appreciate the support because she’s the only fan who holds the Qatari flag in the U.A.E.,” al-Salat said. In normal times, she would be joined by at least 2,000 Qatari fans, he said, but the regular flights between Qatar’s capital, Doha, and Abu Dhabi have also been shut down by the blockade.Qataris now need special clearance and two layers of vetting to travel into the Emirates, where many have family members. But without direct flights between the countries, fans interesting in traveling to the Asian Cup would be required to fly through another country — typically Oman or Kuwait — as the national team was required to do on its way here. (Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa bin Ahmed al-Thani, a member of the Qatari royal family who leads the soccer federation, has based himself in Oman and flies in for his team’s games.)Saudi’s soccer federation, meanwhile, has secured thousands of tickets for its games, but their fans’ presence has had little effect at a tournament notable for its paltry attendance figures. The lack of fans has created a strange atmosphere inside the stadiums, with loud music echoing around largely empty arenas and M.C.s who exhort those present to “make some noise.”Despite tickets priced as low as about $7, even neutral fans are staying away. Several migrant workers, a group that heavily outnumbers U.A.E. nationals in Abu Dhabi, said their biggest obstacle was not ticket prices or geopolitical intrigue but something far more basic: As one Nigerian taxi driver said, he was just too busy.“I’m always at work,” he said.Advertisement