AdvertisementSupported bySuper Bowl LIIILos Angeles bet on the team’s culture, and its research, when adding Aqib Talib, Ndamukong Suh, Dante Fowler and Marcus Peters to bolster the defense. It helped the Rams make the Super Bowl.By Benjamin HoffmanATLANTA — Marcus Peters came into this week well aware of the narrative that had developed around himself and the other defensive starters the Los Angeles Rams had acquired since last season.“What you’re trying to say is, how does he take a bunch of guys who have bad reps and make them act cool together?” he replied when asked how Coach Sean McVay and his assistants handled the acquisitions of Aqib Talib, Ndamukong Suh, Dante Fowler and Peters.They all have run into trouble on or off the field. So Peters, on guard for any intent to trash the reputations of the Rams newcomers, considered the question before continuing. “I got a coach who just turned 33, he does an excellent job with us,” he said. “I think that us as a team, we’ve been doing a hell of a job by respecting each other, and it’s been all together with ‘we, not me.’”That spirit of camaraderie is evident up and down the roster heading into Super Bowl LIII against the New England Patriots on Sunday. The entire team talks about the value of liking one another, the comfort they have with the coaching staff. They frequently praise the work of General Manager Les Snead, who drastically reworked the defense in a series of moves last off-season — and one significant trade during the season — that helped turn the Rams from last season’s breakout team to this season’s N.F.C. champion.Snead faced equal doses of praise and criticism as he pieced together a defense that he hoped could better complement a world-beating offense. Talib and Fowler have been involved in off-field misconduct cases. Suh had long been saddled with a reputation as a dirty player. Peters, a 26-year-old big-play cornerback, had been dismissed from his team in college and made available by the Kansas City Chiefs for a trade because of personality conflicts and some heated arguments with coaches.At the time of the trade last February, Peters made a point of mentioning that all of his issues in the past had been related to intensity on the field and that his off-field record was unblemished.Kevin Demoff, the Rams’ executive vice president for football operations, said his team was not given enough credit for due diligence before trading for Peters and the others. “We did a ton of research on each of these guys individually,” Demoff said. “It wasn’t like we opened up NFL.com’s Top-10 N.F.L. Free Agents and said, ‘yes, yes, yes, no.’”Demoff said an important element of the decision was trusting the culture created by McVay and his defensive coordinator, Wade Phillips.“I think we thought that not only could our coaching staff and the organization handle it,” Demoff said, “but that it was probably a lot less of a risk than people made it out to be.”Phillips, who had coached Talib to a Super Bowl title with the Denver Broncos, said his approach when trying to bring together players of various personalities was fairly straightforward.“You ask them to do what you want them to do, you let them know clearly how you want it done, and if they’re not doing it, you tell them,” he said. “As long as you’re truthful with these guys, they can trust you.”Talib said that Phillips was a master of letting players be themselves, but added that it was not hard to come together, because Snead and the team’s other executives had done such a good job at finding players that would fit together.“Kudos to Les,” he said. “Les went out and got the perfect group of guys that could get in the locker room and mesh together.”In the regular season, the results were mixed for the Rams’ attempt at building a championship-caliber defense. The unit ranked 19th in yards allowed and 20th in average points allowed per game (Los Angeles had ranked 12th and 19th in those categories last season). Its biggest successes were the interior pressure created by Aaron Donald, who is expected to repeat as the N.F.L.’s Defensive Player of the Year, and 30 turnovers, which ranked third in the N.F.L.The problems consisted of a propensity to allow big plays, a softness in their run defense, and an injury that cost Talib, an 11-year veteran, eight games and left the team too short-handed to compete. Peters showed flashes of brilliance, but in eight games without Talib, the Rams allowed an average of 30.6 points a game. In the 10 games, including the playoffs, that Talib started, that number was 18.3.In the postseason, the whole group has seemingly been at its best. Suh and Fowler appear rejuvenated, generating a combined three sacks, and Talib and Peters took the best shots Dak Prescott of the Dallas Cowboys and Drew Brees of the New Orleans Saints had to offer and walked away victorious both times — even after you account for the missed pass-interference call on Nickell Robey-Coleman that has continued to be an issue for the league.Peters, who was called out by Saints Coach Sean Payton for ineffective play in the Rams’ loss to New Orleans in Week 9, approached Payton after the conference championship, presumably to remind him of those unkind words. Proving Peters’s point about how narratives can be twisted, some news media described the encounter as Peters trying to fight Payton, despite video showing that the cornerback was just talking.Now that he is with the Rams, Peters has found a team willing to look beyond a headline and find out what’s really going on. And if Los Angeles can come away with a win on Sunday, Peters, doubted by so many, will undoubtedly have plenty more to say.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement