AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonATLANTA — A day after helping lead the New England Patriots to their sixth Super Bowl title, Brian Flores was named head coach of the Miami Dolphins on Monday.Flores worked with the Patriots for 15 seasons, most recently as the linebackers coach — though he was also responsible for defensive play-calling. He leaves New England on a high note after the Patriots’ defense held the Los Angeles Rams to just 3 points in the Super Bowl on Sunday.As the 13th coach of the Dolphins, Flores will have a lot of work to do. Miami has qualified for the playoffs only twice in the past 17 years, and has had only one winning season in the last decade. He succeeds Adam Gase, who went 23-25 with the team over three seasons and was fired — and subsequently hired by the Jets — after going 7-9 last season.“We’re going to do everything possible to win games and build the culture, and build a winner here,” Flores said on Monday.Flores was a defensive coach from 2011 to 2018, his first calling plays. This season, the Patriots limited opposing quarterbacks to the seventh-lowest average passer rating in the league (85.4), up from 17th (89.5) in 2017. The Patriots were also tied for fifth in the league with 28 takeaways, up from 25th and 18 total the year before.Flores’s move to Florida was not unexpected, but the Dolphins had to wait until the Patriots’ season had ended to formally announce his hiring.He is the only nonwhite head coach to be hired so far in this off-season. All of the other seven head coaches hired have been white. With no current head coaching vacancies, Flores is currently one of four nonwhite coaches in the N.F.L., where the number of coaches who are people of color has fallen by 50 percent compared to last season.The drop in the number of minority coaches has been a source of consternation in the N.F.L. In December, the league strengthened the so-called Rooney Rule, which obligates teams to consider minority candidates for coaching and executive positions. Teams are now required to interview a minority candidate who is not already employed by the team or a minority candidate from the league’s Career Development Advisory Panel list.At the time of the change, the league denied that it had amended the rule — which is named for Dan Rooney, the former owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who championed its creation in 2003 — because it was not effective enough.Last week, Commissioner Roger Goodell said it was unfair to look at a single year when judging the effectiveness of the Rooney Rule.The league, he said, would not judge the success or failure of the rule in “one-year increments.” He added that more than 20 teams had hired minority coaches since the rule was introduced in 2003.Still, there is a distinct lack of people of color in the offensive coordinator and quarterback coach positions, which are often steppingstones to the head coach job.Flores is the latest N.F.L. coach to have been groomed by Patriots head coach Bill Belichick. Houston Texans Coach Bill O’Brien, Detroit Lions Coach Matt Patricia, and Tennessee Titans Coach Mike Vrabel all worked under Belichick. So did Nick Saban, who has been wildly successful leading the University of Alabama.Other Belichick pupils have not been as successful, including Eric Mangini, who was 33-47 in five years coaching the Jets and the Cleveland Browns. Romeo Crennel, who spent six years coaching the Browns and Kansas City Chiefs, had a record of 28-55.Advertisement