AdvertisementSupported byBy Bill PenningtonAfter the first series in Sunday’s Super Bowl, which ended in an interception, New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady angrily cocked his right arm and flung his helmet over a sideline bench.Behind him, Coach Bill Belichick was yelling in the direction of two assistants, who did not bother to turn around.On the field, Patriots linebacker Dont’a Hightower had a potential interception ricochet off his hands.Brady went back out for the Patriots’ next offensive series of the first quarter and swiftly moved them into scoring position, but Stephen Gostkowski missed a field goal, the first kick he had missed in five games. Watching near his team bench, Brady turned and hurled a wad of white tape to the ground.The Patriots were having one of the ugliest performances of any of their nine Super Bowls in the Belichick era, and that included the three games they lost. Yes, the Los Angeles Rams were falling apart, seemingly trying to give the game away. But the Patriots had not run away from the confused, tentative Rams. And they were still tied with them in the fourth quarter.But then, like so many other times before, when it counted most, Brady and the Patriots rediscovered the brilliance that produced five previous Super Bowl victories. An offense once out of sync found a groove that led to a sparkling touchdown drive.It was brief, but it had the cool efficacy of an assassin. The names so familiar. Edelman. Gronkowski. Sony Michel. And the Patriots’ defense, which was not even ranked in the top half of the N.F.L. this season, somehow kept the league’s second-ranked offense from scoring a touchdown.Seconds before the final whistle and a last, largely ceremonial play, the Patriots began hugging one another in the huddle. Seconds later, confetti showered the field and the Patriots were 13-3 winners.The struggles of the first three quarters were forgotten, a puzzling memory but of no consequence any longer.“It was tough,” Brady said on the field afterward. “We just couldn’t make the big play; we couldn’t stay on the field on third down. It was a weird game like that. We were doing so much right, but none of it mattered until the fourth quarter.”It was, in many ways, a microcosm of the Patriots’ season. They began the year 1-2, rallied and then fell apart again. But they made the playoffs, capping their run with their sixth Super Bowl win — tying the Pittsburgh Steelers for the most. They did so by outplaying three of the top teams in the league: the Los Angeles Chargers, the Kansas City Chiefs and the Rams, who could never figure out how to solve New England’s ’ ever-changing defense.The Patriots left their safeties deep for much of the game but kept switching the positions of their cornerbacks, keeping them in the Rams’ wide receivers’ faces on one series, and then backing off the next. And the pressure on Rams quarterback Jared Goff was relentless for much of the night.A sloppy, listless game like Sunday’s might make it hard to immediately declare the Patriots’ championship run this century as one of the best in N.F.L. history, but the resilience and the ability to come out on top year after year is hard to argue with.“It took all kinds of ways to get this done, even week by week,” Brady said. “We had to grind it out against the Chargers, at Kansas City and obviously again tonight when we really struggled to find a rhythm.“But I mean, world champs again. Man, it’s pretty unreal.”The tone of the game — chaotic, muddled, boring — was evident from the beginning. The Patriots were having their problems, but the Rams’ offense was hapless (they had just two first downs in the first half).The Patriots were marching but getting nowhere.There was one Patriot having a spectacular game: wide receiver Julian Edelman, who had 10 receptions for 141 yards and was named game’s most valuable player. In the first half alone, Edelman made six catches that resulted in a first down, including a 25-yarder that set up a 42-yard Gostkowski field goal and a 3-0 lead that lasted until intermission. The Rams tied the game with a field goal of their own in the third quarter.The pivotal drive of the game began when the Patriots took control of the ball with 8 minutes 50 seconds left in the fourth quarter. The first play of the possession was a nice touch pass from Brady, who lofted the football over the head of a defender as tight end Rob Gronkowski circled toward the sideline for 18 yards.Two more Brady completions had the crowd at Mercedes-Benz Stadium chanting, “Bray-dee!”Brady then settled in the pocket and, behind the near flawless pass protection he had throughout the game, lofted a perfect spiral that dropped over the head of two fleet Rams defenders who were nonetheless helplessly chasing the 6-foot-6, 270-pound Gronkowski.Gronkowski was hobbled for most of this season, sometimes comically so, and he is openly pondering retirement. But after two weeks to rest various leg and elbow infirmities, Gronkowski looked rejuvenated. His 26-yard catch moved the ball to the Rams’ 2.In the huddle before the play, Edelman looked at Gronkowski and said, “We need another one from you, bro, we need a huge play.”Gronkowski said, “He had been making all the plays; I had to step up.”On the next play, Michel bulled into the end zone for a 10-3 lead. A late Gostkowski field goal sealed the outcome.The Patriots, bungling, frustrated and unsure of themselves for most of the game, had found a way to another championship — as they have so often before.“I don’t know what was going on there for a while — it was strange,” Brady said. “I just know it doesn’t matter anymore.”Advertisement