AdvertisementSupported byThe Rams and the Chiefs were the darlings of the league this season, but can they beat the Saints and the Patriots to get to the Super Bowl?By Benjamin HoffmanFor all the excitement created by the N.F.L.’s offensive fireworks this season, the league could be accused of being predictable. From roughly Week 5 forward, the Rams, the Saints and the Chiefs were considered favorites to get to this point. And while it was a down season for the Patriots, relatively speaking, it will probably be several years after Tom Brady’s retirement before people stop assuming he will find a way into the A.F.C. championship game.So after all those yards and touchdowns, it comes down to the top four offenses battling to reach the Super Bowl. Four elite quarterbacks, four teams with terrific running games and four head coaches who seem more than capable of getting the most out of their players.There will almost certainly be a great deal of scoring in both games, but the results could hinge on a key takeaway or a key pressure from one of the less-heralded defenses. And whichever teams eke out a win will meet in Atlanta two weeks later in Super Bowl LIII. Here are our predictions for how the conference championships will sort out, both in terms of who will win and who will win against the spread.Last week’s record against the spread: 2-2Playoff record against the spread: 4-3-1N.F.C.3:05 p.m., FoxSomehow the Week 9 showdown between Los Angeles and New Orleans did not receive the hype or the praise of the Rams’ thrilling win against Kansas City in Week 11, but it was not for a lack of excitement or importance. The teams combined for 80 points and 970 yards of offense, and the Saints ended the Rams’ undefeated start to the season.While that result essentially decided home-field advantage for this game, and there are certainly aspects of that game that could serve as a preview for this one, the Rams’ roster gained two important additions after that day: Aqib Talib and C.J. Anderson.First and foremost is Talib, the Pro Bowl cornerback who was among the Rams’ most prominent acquisitions last off-season. He injured his ankle in Week 3, had an operation and did not return until Week 13. Talib, 32, immediately took the team’s secondary from awful to adequate.On top of that, Los Angeles has gotten a boost in the last three games from Anderson, a running back who never quite reached his potential in Denver, and spent this season on three teams. He appears to have found a home as a second running option alongside Todd Gurley, helping spare Gurley’s balky knee from abuse and providing a different look at the position.Those additions level the playing field considerably, but there are plenty of reasons the Saints were the N.F.C.’s top team in the regular season, and all of them hold true. Quarterback Drew Brees is still firing on all cylinders. The team’s running game is among the best — and the most versatile — in the entire N.F.L. Michael Thomas is among the game’s most talented wide receivers. And the New Orleans defense does a terrific job of stopping the run.In what should be a fantastic game between evenly matched teams, the deciding factor could be which overmatched secondary performs better. There will be a lot of yardage regardless, but if Talib can limit Thomas, the opportunity is there for the Rams to come away with a road upset and their first trip to the Super Bowl since the 2001 season.Pick to win: RamsPick against the spread: Rams +3.5A.F.C.6:40 p.m., CBSTom Brady and the rest of the Patriots seem to believe that the football world has lost faith in them. It’s true that many people picked the Chargers to win last week — though the Patriots were officially 4-point favorites in the game — but even the most ardent believers in Los Angeles’s chances seemed aware that the combination of Brady, Bill Belichick and Foxborough could easily lead to a win for New England. Fast-forward one week, and the Patriots are underdogs not just in spirit but also in reality against a team that spent most of the season with people assuming it would reach the Super Bowl. The faith in quarterback Patrick Mahomes came quickly, but it was also warranted, as he followed his 5,097-yard, 50-touchdown regular season by easily dispatching the Indianapolis Colts in his playoff debut last weekend.When the Patriots and Chiefs met in Week 6, Mahomes had about as much success as a visiting young starter could expect in New England, throwing for 352 yards and four touchdowns. But he also threw a pair of interceptions and endured the first loss of his professional career. Of concern to the Patriots, however, is that Mahomes seemed to be figuring things out against them as the game went along. Kansas City outscored New England, 31-19, in the second half of that game, and Mahomes tied the score with just over three minutes to play by hitting Tyreek Hill for a 75-yard touchdown — only to have Brady march his team downfield for a game-winning, 28-yard field goal as time expired.Now the Chiefs get a turn to host, and Arrowhead Stadium should be nice and frigid, with temperatures expected to be in the low 20s. Last weekend, in the Chiefs’ win over Indianapolis, Coach Andy Reid compensated for the snow and cold by focusing on the run, and it worked: Four Kansas City players scored rushing touchdowns. The defense did its part by harassing Colts quarterback Andrew Luck into a poor game.This time, the Chiefs may want to focus on the pass. New England is vulnerable there, having allowed 3,943 passing yards this season and 29 touchdowns through the air, though the damage was mitigated by a decent number of interceptions. As Mahomes has proved repeatedly, he can take chances while still minimizing turnover risk, and if he can turn this game into a shootout, he has the advantage, thanks to his team’s superior skill players.This all adds up to Kansas City’s rightly being the favorite, with an extremely good shot of playing in the Super Bowl for the first time since Len Dawson led the Chiefs to a win over the Vikings in Super Bowl IV. Brady has every right to feel confident in his chances, based on the fact that things virtually always work out for him and his team. Chiefs fans have every right to be worried, based on their franchise’s playoff history, but if Mahomes is Mahomes, that will be enough to warrant Las Vegas’s faith in Kansas City. Pick to win: ChiefsPick against the spread: Chiefs -3.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement