AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperATLANTA — Maroon 5, the headliner for the Super Bowl halftime show on Sunday, has already managed to do something its predecessors did not: skipping out on the traditional news conference to promote the show.The N.F.L. said the performers — along with Travis Scott and Big Boi — were too busy preparing to attend the event, which had been scheduled for Thursday but was canceled Tuesday evening.“Maroon 5 has been working hard on a Pepsi Super Bowl LIII Halftime Show that will meet and exceed the standards of this event,” the N.F.L. said in a news release announcing the cancellation. “As it is about music, the artists will let their show do the talking.”pic.twitter.com/UCgQ53ssANThe questioning is not usually a grilling. Last year, Justin Timberlake was asked whether Tom Brady was a rival in Timberlake’s bromance with Jimmy Fallon. Two years before, Coldplay’s Chris Martin was asked if his children, Apple and Moses, understood how big his performance at the Super Bowl would be.Lady Gaga, Katy Perry, Bruno Mars, Beyoncé, Madonna, The Black Eyed Peas and The Who all took their turns on the podium in recent years.Prince, the 2007 performer, was expected to avoid interviews, but he showed up for the news conference — then turned it into a mini-concert, without taking questions.Yet this year’s artists almost certainly would face questions about Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who, by kneeling during the national anthem, started a protest movement against racial injustice and police brutality in 2016. He has not been on an N.F.L. team since that season.According to news reports, some chart-topping performers turned down invitations to perform at the Super Bowl, out of support for Kaepernick. Scott said he had talked by phone with Kaepernick before it was announced that he would be performing, according to Variety, which cited a source close to Scott as saying the two had come to a “mutual respect and understanding.” That account was later disputed on Twitter by Nessa Diab, a radio host who is also Kaepernick’s girlfriend.PJ Morton, Maroon 5’s keyboardist, told People that he believed the group could both oppose police brutality and perform at the Super Bowl.“We can support being against police brutality against black and brown people and be in support of being able to peacefully protest and still do our jobs,” he said. “We just want to have a good time and entertain people while understanding the important issues that are at hand.”The halftime show isn’t the only Super Bowl performance for which Kaepernick has become a flash point. Gladys Knight, who will perform the national anthem before the game, seemed to criticize Kaepernick’s method of activism this month.The N.F.L. did not respond to a request for comment on the cancellation. A representative for Adam Levine, Maroon 5’s frontman, did not return a phone call requesting comment.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com. Follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement