AdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy Engle Before reading the article: With the Super Bowl approaching, it’s a good time to appreciate the athletic prowess of N.F.L. athletes.Watch the three videos of one-handed catches featured in the article.Which catch do you think was the best or most impressive, and why?Now, read the article, “Grab and Go: How Sticky Gloves Have Changed Football,” and answer the following questions: 1. The article begins, “One of the most infamous dropped passes in football history clanged off Dallas Cowboys tight end Jackie Smith as he lay in the end zone during Super Bowl XIII.” Why did David Waldstein, the author, choose a play from 40 years ago to open the piece? Why does he suggest that Smith’s fortune might have been different if he were playing football today?2. Mr. Waldstein writes: “When a catch is made, the naked eye often sees only hands grabbing a ball. But what is happening on the palms of a receiver’s gloves is far more complex.” In your own words, explain the science involved when a player catches a ball while wearing silicone gloves.3. What properties of the silicone glove are most surprising or interesting to you? How does Mr. Waldstein help the reader visualize how the gloves work on a microscopic level?4. How did Anette Hosoi, a co-director of the M.I.T. Sports Lab and an associate dean of engineering at M.I.T., test the gloves to determine how much “tackiness” they provide for users? How much stickier is the glove than a human hand?5. Jeff Beraznik first had the idea of a sticky football glove as a football player at the University of Ottawa. How did his pursuit of the perfect glove lead him to Karachi, Pakistan? What does his story tell you about the nature of innovation?6. Why was Stickum, an earlier product used by wide receivers, outlawed by the N.F.L.? How do silicone gloves meet the criteria of the current rule book?7. Odell Beckham Jr. is widely seen as the master of the one-handed catch. How has he influenced other receivers playing the game? How has the one-handed catch changed football?Finally, tell us more about what you think: — What’s your reaction to the article? Are you more or less impressed by the athletic prowess of N.F.L. wide receivers?— According to the article:The technological advances on the skin of those gloves have been so profound that they now enable receivers to snare passes their forebears never dreamed of catching, and in making the seemingly impossible possible, they may be changing the way football is played.Do you think athletes should be able to use technology to improve their performance? Or do you think they give some athletes an unfair advantage? Does advanced equipment diminish or strengthen individuals’ talent and the sport over all? Why do you think so?— If you do think technology is acceptable in sports, should there be limits on the amount or type of equipment that athletes can use? Is there any advancement that could be considered “going too far” or cheating? Is it all fair game? Why?Advertisement