AdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. It is, of course, entirely possible that you won’t be watching the Super Bowl on Sunday night. Just 103 million people watched the Eagles beat the Patriots last year, after all — that’s fewer than one in three Americans, by rough count. I get it. You might prefer to watch “Aida” on demand, from the Metropolitan Opera in New York, or tie flies, or read “Adèle,” Leila Slimani’s first novel, about a sex addict in upper-middle-class Paris. Football’s not for everyone.But you should eat well while doing whatever you’re going to be doing this weekend, and the football playbook provides good eating whatever the entertainment you choose. I love this collection of our best Super Bowl recipes. I love Julia Moskin’s recipe for Texas-style chili, indeed all chilis, a dish that is as delicious an accompaniment to prose and music as it is to ritualized television violence. Also, this party board of roasted vegetables with aioli, and this tray of buttery French TV cookies, and this recipe for family-meal fish tacos.That’s for Sunday, though. On Saturday, I think you could do a couple of things. The first is to take a long spin through Julia’s latest treatise for better living through organization, “How to Stock a Modern Pantry.” Shop and store things in its wake and your cooking in coming weeks will be all the happier, all the more delicious, all the easier.The second is to set yourself up for a great recipe from Tejal Rao that is the subject of her “Eat” column in The Times this week: brie en croute (above), a wheel of supermarket Camembert, baked in puff pastry, a relic of 1970s dinner parties no longer, a reliable way to delight. Serve that as a salad before or after or during a dinner of deviled chicken thighs with green beans and shallots. Saturday night’s all right.And don’t stint on breakfasts, in this season of midwinter. It is breakfast and vitamin D that will get us through to spring. You could make Chinese-style breakfast egg wraps, or a Dutch baby, or roasted grapefruit, or avocado toast. Go light on lunch and then fire yourself up for those big dinners I suggest above.Close to 20,000 more recipes are awaiting your attention on NYT Cooking. (Stipulation: You will need to sign up for a subscription to access them. Worth it!) You can find us on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter as well. That’s where we traffic in yet more recipes and digital hijinks.We’re here for you if you run into trouble with any of it along the way — with the cooking, the bureaucracy, the technology. Just ask for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. Or, if you’re mad about it, get in touch with me: foodeditor@nytimes.com. I can’t fix anything, really, but I can take a punch.Now, it’s a far cry from chia seeds and finely milled flour, but you should read Lily Burana on Longreads, on her youth as a peep-show girl in Times Square.Just as sadly, you should watch this video from The New Yorker, “Lifeboat,” about German volunteers in the Mediterranean, rescuing refugees from Libya.Finally, uplift. Here’s Biosis Now, “Independent Bahamas.” Have a fantastic weekend. See you on Sunday.cookingcookingAdvertisement