AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNDavid Steinberg roots around and comes up with a tough Saturday puzzle.By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  Lo, and behold this cute little snowflake grid from David Steinberg. The longest entries are but seven letters, and I feel I shall make short work of it. Said I before I’d dug in at all, let alone too deep. In truth, this was a pretty slow solve for me, which is typical when tackling Mr. Steinberg’s creations. I'll say I chose to work my way around the center cross, but that’s mainly because I made some early headway in the southwest corner and passively followed it east, to a delightful little menagerie. Then I had to backtrack and head northwest again because the northeast corner was tough as nails, and after a couple of missteps, everything up there fell in place.One of the very last entries I got was the eye-twitch inducer du jour, I guess, SCHMUCK. I had a Yiddish-speaking grandma and I remember hearing schmendrick, schlemiel and schlamozzle, but I think SCHMUCK was verboten. This clue made me think of a recent reference, though, and chuckle a bit — it was when Harrison Ford almost caused some massive air collision while landing his little plane.There are differing opinions, by people who know (or are interested in) the etymology of SCHMUCK, of its appropriateness for ordinary use. It has made just two appearances in the puzzle already, once in 2005 (plural, clued as “Jerks”), and once in 1975 (plural again, “Oafs”). (By the way, I got all stressed out about IT'S A ME MARIO last weekend for much the same reasons. My oft-mentioned cruciverbal colleague referred this matter to her husband, who is both Italian and a gamer, and although it’s a week late and a lira short I could not resist reporting to you his reaction, which was, “It’s a-ffensive!”)1A: First of all, football can be soccer, lest we sports anti-fans forget. Second of all, if you’re staring at your grid wondering what begins with A-C-M, let alone a sports team, you’re fine. Mr. Steinberg is referring to AC MILAN, an early Italian football club; there are much older teams, though, and football had already become an Olympic sport, in 1896.18A: I think my Waterloo in this quadrant was caused by entering “spinoff” here, bizarrely and confidently, since I’d heard of “The Good Wife,” a television show, and vaguely heard there were more shows based on it. A lot of you probably thought of PARABLE as a gimme. I also had “new to” instead of NEW AT, which made a letter string of S-R-T-N in 8D, which was befuddling.33A: Where else do we get to delve our academic memories for nuggets like this? Hans Christian OERSTED was the physicist who, in the 1820s, discovered a relationship between electrical currents and magnetism. He was also famously one of the first scientists to extract aluminum, if you were remembering the name for some other reason.59A, and friends: “Enthusiastic greeting” is a good tricky clue for what could be sort of alarming to those conscious of personal space — I was thinking “tail wag,” but it’s BEAR HUG. BEAR HUG runs over CAT POSE, which alternates with cow pose for a good back stretch you should go do every so often (in private, if you’re self-conscious at all, really). Crossing with ROAD HOG (which could also have been “ball hog” as clued — both are funny) was clever as a fox, Mr. Steinberg.1D: This entry was easy to find on crosses, but it’s a little mysterious. Are ACCENTS highlights or is this a play on a stereotypical snobby French coiffeur?12D: Something about this corner in the aggregate made it hard but fun, with roughly four of seven down clues from the top being puns; this one, “Place to get wired,” or USB PORT, was particularly good.24D: This could have also been clued, universally, as “dogs like cats’, but not vice versa,” because there has never been a dog that doesn’t joyously devour cat KIBBLES, but cats think that dog food is junk. Every cat and dog on Earth was polled on this question and the results were unanimous.This themeless dates back to March 2016. I started in the upper left with the Scrabbly NOXZEMA/CINEMAX crossing, though my favorite corner is actually the lower right. Even though the short crossings aren’t as smooth, I really like the trio of animal entries (ROAD HOG, BEAR HUG, and CAT POSE). SCHMUCK is a bit edgy for my current taste, but I’ll always have a soft spot for Yiddish and other words that relate to Jewish culture. I debuted HAMANTASCHEN in a Newsday Saturday Stumper a few years ago, and lately I’ve been trying to work RUGELACH into a themeless grid.In other news, I was recently named editor of the Universal Crossword and Universal Sunday Crossword! The former appears daily in The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, and numerous other domestic and international newspapers. If you’re looking for a cooldown after solving my Saturday puzzle, you won’t want to miss today’s offering from the amazing Zhouqin Burnikel (available after midnight Central time).Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?Advertisement