AdvertisementSupported byBy Salman MasoodISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Pakistan said on Tuesday that it would take new steps to seize and freeze the assets of people and militant groups who are on the United Nations’ list of designated terrorists, after months of international criticism.The announcement came as India and Pakistan were still on edge after a suicide bombing in Kashmir last month led to a military clash between the two. And last month, a financial watchdog group, the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force, said Pakistan was still not taking enough concrete steps to curb financing and money laundering by terrorist groups.Pakistan risks being blacklisted by the task force, which would open the door to international sanctions that would be devastating to the country’s already teetering economy.Pakistan’s military has long been accused by its neighbors and Western countries of cultivating militant groups to use as proxies, including the Afghan Taliban and Lashkar-e-Taiba, which was widely accused of orchestrating the 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed more than 160 people.The financial task force demanded more action in particular against Lashkar-e-Taiba and against Jaish-e-Muhammad, a militant group that claimed responsibility for the Feb. 14 bombing in Kashmir that killed 40 Indian paramilitary soldiers.“There is a total consensus across all state institutions that these religious militias of all kinds represent a liability from the 1990s, a baggage of the past,” Moeed Pirzada, an analyst and television news host who has been briefed by civilian and military officials, said in an interview on Tuesday. “They don’t serve any purpose and need to be absorbed into mainstream society through alternate job creation.”Mr. Pirzada said the main challenge was to make inroads against such groups by taking over the religious schools, hospitals and relief organizations that they operate as fronts. Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government made some budgetary allowances for those actions in December, he said.A simple guide to the roots of the conflict and what could happen next.[An American cricket club carries on despite India-Pakistan tensions.]On Tuesday, Pakistani officials promised to take stronger action in the coming weeks against militant groups that operate inside Pakistani territory.Pakistan has made those promises before, including when it was put on the financial task force’s so-called gray list early last year, at the request of the Trump administration.But Pakistani officials say that there is greater urgency now, and that Mr. Khan’s administration is worried about becoming an international pariah if it fails to act. On Monday evening, Mr. Khan gave a rare background briefing to news show hosts in which he reportedly emphasized that the time had come to do more to crack down on militant groups.Pakistani officials say they plan to freeze the assets of more groups, and to take control of religious seminaries that are affiliated with them. The officials said that more travel restrictions would also be imposed on militant leaders.In an initial sign of a crackdown, the Pakistani authorities have detained 44 people, including the brother and son of Masood Azhar, the chief of Jaish-e-Muhammad. Shehryar Afridi, the state minister for interior, who announced the move during a news conference in Islamabad, did not specify any charges and said the detentions were meant for investigations.Mr. Afridi said the names of Mufti Abdur Raoof, the brother of Mr. Azhar, and Hammad Azhar, the son of Mr. Azhar, were included in a dossier that Indian authorities handed to Pakistan for investigations into the Feb. 14 Kashmir attack.Azam Suleman Khan, the interior secretary, said those detained would be freed if found innocent. “In case we don’t find any evidence against them, we will release them,” Mr. Khan said.As Pakistan continued to extend gestures that it wanted normalization of ties, its Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday that Sohail Mehmood, the country’s ambassador to India, would return to New Delhi to resume his duties. The ambassador was recalled to Islamabad last month after tensions erupted over the Kashmir attack.Pakistan also said on Tuesday that a delegation would visit India on March 14 to discuss a draft agreement on a Sikh pilgrimage corridor between the estranged neighbors. The Pakistani visit will be followed by a reciprocal Indian visit, officials said.Advertisement