AdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. All I want to do this week is follow Tejal Rao’s new recipe for mall-style barbecue chicken pizza (above), a dish she wrote about movingly in The Times the other day.“Later, my brother and I would learn that we weren’t supposed to like mall food,” Tejal wrote in her most recent “Eat” column. “Certainly not mall pizza. But when we still had identification cards with the word ‘alien’ on them, we found that mall pizza helped us feel at home, assured us there was space for us here.”And, of course, the version of the dish Tejal makes now doesn’t just recreate the flavors of those California Pizza Kitchen slices she ate as a kid. It greatly improves on them. So read her words and get to it! Make the dough this evening, and you’ll be eating fine by Tuesday night.For dinner today, though: chicken piccata! Or maybe Provençal greens soup. I wouldn’t say no to twice-baked potatoes, either, the dough for the pizza proofing in the fridge and everyone crowded around the screen watching Clemson play Alabama for the college football national championship. (Roll Tide!)More ambitiously, if for instance football is not your game and you’d prefer to start the week working well and happily in the kitchen as Rudolf Serkin plays Beethoven over the Bluetooth, you could try out David Tanis’s new recipe, for mushroom and leek cottage pie. Or you could assemble Melissa Clark’s new recipe for a farro bowl with broccoli and lemon dressing.Later this week, whatever you get up to tonight, maybe you’ll make garlicky chicken with lemon-anchovy sauce. Or Yotam Ottolenghi’s shrimp Bolognese. Salmon with a compound butter of lime and herbs? Miso chicken? I do hope that someday soon you’ll make someone Alison Roman’s ginger-molasses cookies. They are sublime.There are thousands and thousands more recipes sitting prettily in wait for you on NYT Cooking. (You will, however, need a subscription to access them.) You can find further inspiration on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. And even if you’re not a subscriber, you can write us at cookingcare@nytimes.com for help with your cooking or with our site and apps.Now, it’s a far cry from Tempranillo and lobster knuckles, I know, but the third season of “True Detective” comes online on Jan. 13. Here’s the trailer, starring Mahershala Ali and Stephen Dorff.In case you missed it, Amanda Hess on whether cats are getting better at acting is a chef-finger-kiss example of how great a critic she is.After a long discussion with a pal about the merits of Charles Willeford’s dark and excellent novel “Cockfighter,” first released as a paperback in 1962 and revised a decade later for hardcover, I went to look up The Times’s original review, published in 1972. Classic shade.Finally, last week the historian Michael Beschloss posted a photograph I hadn’t seen before, of Nancy Pelosi with John F. Kennedy. How about that? See you on Wednesday.An earlier version of this article misidentified the individual photographed with Nancy Pelosi. It is John F. Kennedy, not John F. Kennedy Jr.cookingcookingAdvertisement