AdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanRing in the new year with some organization inspiration, courtesy of Marie Kondo, and the first-ever “Doctor Who” New Year’s Day special.TIDYING UP WITH MARIE KONDO on Netflix. If you want to start 2019 with a clean slate, Netflix’s new original series may provide some inspiration, courtesy of the minimalist queen of clean Marie Kondo. In the eight-episode series, the author of “The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up” puts her advice into practice, visiting the homes of people who desperately want to declutter and identify the belongings that “spark joy.”DOCTOR WHO NEW YEAR’S DAY SPECIAL 8 p.m. on BBC America. The 13th doctor returns for the first “Doctor Who” New Year’s Day special. The time lord (Jodie Whittaker) and her companions must defend Earth from “the most dangerous creature in the universe.” And, based on the “ex-ter-mi-nate!” heard in the episode’s teaser, she might be facing off against some familiar foes: the Daleks. The hourlong episode “Resolution” follows an eight-day “Doctor Who” marathon.COLLEGE FOOTBALL on ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC. New Year’s Day promises hours of college football, with 10 teams competing in bowl games. You can catch the Outback Bowl in Tampa, Fla., at 12 p.m. on ESPN2, and the Citrus Bowl from Orlando, Fla., at 1 p.m. on ABC. On ESPN, LSU teams up against the University of Central Florida in the Fiesta Bowl at 1 p.m., Washington plays Ohio State in the Rose Bowl at 5 p.m., and No. 15 Texas takes on the No. 5-ranked Georgia Bulldogs at 8:45 p.m. in the Sugar Bowl.AKC NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP DOG SHOW 6 p.m. on Animal Planet. See canines of all kinds strut their stuff in one of the largest televised dog shows. This four-hour broadcast features breeds from around the world vie not just for best in show but in obedience and agility events, like dock diving and rally. Celebrity dog owners will also get in on the action, with the TV host Mario Lopez and the Olympian Shawn Johnson acting as representatives for their pets’ respective groups.LOVE, GILDA (2018) 9 and 11 p.m. on CNN. This moving documentary tribute to the comedian Gilda Radner makes its television debut. With the help of Radner’s notes and journals, as well as personal audio recordings and videos, the filmmaker Lisa D’Apolito shares stories from Radner’s life, from her work on “Saturday Night Live” to the health struggles that led to her death in 1989, at age 42. The program also features interviews with her close friends Chevy Chase and Lorne Michaels, as well as other “S.N.L.” alums influenced by her work, like Bill Hader, Amy Poehler and Maya Rudolph. In his review, the critic Jason Zinoman of The New York Times called “Love, Gilda” “a very affectionate reminder of her brief and brilliant career, a heartfelt love letter whose title might be more accurate without the comma.”Advertisement