AdvertisementSupported byBy Robin SwithinbankThe Swiss watch brand Hublot, which has partnered with the likes of the FIFA World Cup and the Ferrari Formula One team, has announced that it will continue its role as official timekeeper of the Cricket World Cup, with the 2019 competition scheduled to start May 30.The event is sponsored by the International Cricket Council and held every four years — this year in England and Wales.Hublot’s previous high-profile sporting affiliations have put it in competition with more established watch brands, such as Rolex, Omega and Audemars Piguet, each of which has successfully used sports to raise brand awareness. Hublot was founded in 1980 and has been owned by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton since 2008.Ricardo Guadalupe, Hublot’s chief executive, said that Hublot’s strategy was to invest in sports that have a global footprint and little, if any, association with other Swiss watch brands. In the past, Audemars Piguet had worked with Sachin Tendulkar and Ulysse Nardin with Yuvraj Singh, both Indian cricketers, but Hublot is the first to partner with the organizing council.“Cricket is virgin territory,” Mr. Guadalupe said in an interview during the announcement of the partnership at the brand’s Bond Street boutique in London.Mr. Guadalupe said cricket also would give Hublot a route to market in targeted regions. “Cricket is huge in India,” he said. “There is potential to grow heavily in India and with Indians, who buy all over the world.”Cricket is India’s most popular sport. The national broadcaster Star India reported that its television coverage of the 2015 Cricket World Cup, also sponsored by Hublot, was watched by more than 600 million people in the country. (The 2019 Super Bowl had a domestic audience of 98.2 million, according to the research firm Nielsen.)“We’ve had double-digit growth in India since we got involved in cricket,” Mr. Guadalupe said, adding that this summer Hublot plans to open its first stand-alone boutique in Mumbai, India’s financial center and largest city, and is working on one in New Delhi.Mr. Guadalupe declined to disclose the cost of the I.C.C. partnership, but said that it was in the “single millions” of dollars and much less costly than Hublot’s soccer affiliations.As part of the cricket deal, Hublot had announced a 100-piece limited-edition watch, a version of its 45-millimeter Classic Fusion Chronograph that is scheduled for release on March 23. (Mr. Guadalupe said the 2,018-piece limited-edition connected watch that Hublot made for the 2018 World Cup sold out in four weeks.)Mr. Guadalupe also said that some top Hublot customers would be given a special experience at the Cricket World Cup, but that the reason for the partnership was to “build and shape the consumer of tomorrow.”Advertisement