AdvertisementSupported byOn BaseballBy Tyler KepnerPHOENIX — No city’s fans combine supreme confidence, mother bear protectiveness and unrelenting demands the way Philadelphia’s do. To root for a Philly team is to always expect success, to be devastated — aggrieved, even — in the face of failure, and to insist that the world know exactly how you feel. As the Eagles’ Jason Kelce proudly proclaimed last year, in his epic, breathless, post-Super Bowl rant on the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, “No one likes us, we don’t care.”Into this caldron steps Bryce Harper, who really seems to crave it. True, a record $330 million contract buys a lot of affection. But in agreeing on Thursday to sign with the Phillies for 13 years — without an opt-out clause, which is usually standard in contracts for Scott Boras clients — Harper has bound himself to a sports culture all its own.“Before my first season, we had player appearances at the ballpark, and I was in my own little booth,” said Brad Lidge, a former Phillies closer, by phone on Friday. “One guy was like, ‘Can you please sign for my son?’ and then: ‘You’d better not blow any saves this year. We’re going to come down hard on you if you do!’ I was like, ‘Oh my God.’ ”Lidge did as instructed in that 2008 season. He converted all of his 48 save chances, including the World Series clincher, a cathartic moment for a city that had gone 25 years since its last championship. Lidge said he thrived on the fans’ intensity.“In a way, it gets your mind right,” he said. “It gets you really focused. You know you’re being watched under a microscope — and it’s not just how you perform on the field, it’s the way you play. The fans in Philly understand the game really well, and they can tell if you’re not hustling or taking plays off.”Harper, 26, will come of age as an athlete in Philadelphia. He could be moody in his seven years with the Washington Nationals, and was sometimes cited by managers for not hustling on ground balls. Yet he has also run into walls — a habit that can make an outfielder a hero in Philadelphia, as it did for Aaron Rowand — and he plays with a fiery edge.“He plays every game like it’s his last game,” said Pete Rose, the career hits leader and former Phillie, by phone from Las Vegas on Thursday. “He’s not worried about getting hurt; we all get hurt. Bryce is just a talent, a big-league talent since he was 13 years old around here.“Now he just needs to get that same enthusiasm during the season that he had when he won the home run derby last year. That was like a World Series celebration. Bryce is going to be there a long time, and once you get that feeling of World Series competition, you want it every year.”Rose reached his first World Series in 1970, in his eighth season; Harper is at the same career stage now. Rose played in six of them and won three championships, including in 1980 with the Phillies, whom he had joined a year earlier with a five-year contract that averaged $810,000 a season — edging David Thompson of the Denver Nuggets for the highest salary in American sports.A record contract should not come with pressure, Rose said — “Pressure is when you’re making $5,000 a month and your bills are $8,000,” he added — but Harper now shares the mandate Rose faced: to get the Phillies over the top. His arrival caps a thorough makeover of an offense that produced the fewest hits in the majors last season.The Phillies, who were 80-82 and have not had a winning record since 2011, have also added catcher J. T. Realmuto, shortstop Jean Segura and left fielder Andrew McCutchen. Harper, Realmuto and Segura were All-Stars last season, and McCutchen — the 2013 National League most valuable player — had 20 home runs and a .368 on-base percentage.“It’s the perfect timing,” the Phillies Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt told MLB Network Radio on Friday. “We were very close to contending prior to all of this happening. Now with all of this happening, Bryce Harper knows what’s going on. He knows that Philadelphia is going to be a great place to play. They ended up giving him the biggest contract ever, so he’s pretty much getting everything he wants right now.”Harper has 184 home runs and a .900 on-base plus slugging percentage through his Age 26 season; Schmidt, who started later, had 131 homers and an .869 OPS at the same age. Harper is signed through age 38, an age at which Schmidt was still productive. He turned 38 at the end of the 1987 season, when he hit 35 home runs and batted .293.Schmidt, of course, is one of the greatest players ever, a three-time M.V.P. who won 10 Gold Gloves at third base and was a central figure in the golden decade of Philadelphia sports: 1974 to 1983, when the Flyers won two Stanley Cups, the Phillies and the 76ers each won a championship, and the Eagles reached their first Super Bowl.Now the Eagles are a force again, the 76ers are a blossoming power and the Flyers have a dynamic rookie goaltender, Carter Hart, and an oddly captivating rookie mascot — a wild-haired creature named Gritty who became an instant Philadelphia sensation, at least partly because fans seemed to mock him everywhere else.Harper, who has his own distinct hairstyle, is known to grate on opponents, too. Like Lenny Dykstra in the 1980s, Harper was a division rival whom Philly fans loved to hate until he joined their team. The son of a Las Vegas ironworker, Harper just might have the brash ethos his new city adores.“He’s that way,” Boras said. “Harp’s got a lot of blue collar in him from his father. He competes, he’s passionate, he gets excited about winning. Those fans are that way, too.”Professional sports are littered with lengthy contracts that become bad investments. In Philadelphia, the fans will expect this to work. They will embrace Harper if he hustles and hits. And they will always let him know where he stands.Advertisement