AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)There’s a lot going on with the Super Bowl, even if you’re not into sports. It’s a quintessential — if fraught — American spectacle. There are the ads. This year, as The Guardian reported, the marijuana industry is counting CBS’s mere consideration of an ad advocating for the legalization of medical cannabis a win.There’s the halftime show. Maroon 5, Sunday’s headliner, along with Travis Scott and Big Boi, canceled their pregame news conference, where they almost certainly would have gotten questions about national anthem protests.For the first time, male dance-style cheerleaders will be on the sideline, making history with the Rams. And then, of course, there’s the actual football. On that, I’ll defer to my colleague Ben Shpigel (who certainly knows a lot more than the Super Bowl-predicting giraffe in Nashville — although it did pick the Rams):In their third season since relocating from St. Louis, the Rams will try to deliver Los Angeles its first football championship since 1984. To do so, they must outlast the New England Patriots, who are appearing in their ninth Super Bowl in 18 seasons.The Rams’ ascent to the N.F.L. elite, from 4-12 in 2016 to consecutive N.F.C. West titles, traces back to their decision in January 2017 to hire as coach Sean McVay, then all of 30 years old. Across the last two seasons, the Rams have scored the most points in the league and are tied for the most wins, with 24.McVay has optimized quarterback Jared Goff, a former No. 1 pick, while assembling a strong locker-room culture. With a series of bold personnel moves, General Manager Les Snead has built a formidable core around Goff, defensive tackle Aaron Donald and running back Todd Gurley.This season, the Rams won their first eight games, and 11 of their first 12, before a late slump — consecutive losses in prime-time, at Chicago and to Philadelphia — coerced them into reshaping their offensive identity. The Rams have since leaned on Gurley and C.J. Anderson, released three times since April, to bully teams with a dynamic running attack.Anderson is one of only four Rams with Super Bowl experience. The Patriots have 38, including the 41-year-old quarterback Tom Brady, who is bidding for a record sixth Super Bowl win. His first came against the Rams, in Super Bowl XXXVI, 17 years ago Sunday.“This is the big dance, you know?” Donald, the defensive tackle, said. “We’ve played great football all year, but this is the last one.”(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• “I think Nancy Pelosi is hurting our country very badly by doing what’s she doing and, ultimately, I think I’ve set the table very nicely,” President Trump said in an exclusive interview. He called border security negotiations a “waste of time.” [The New York Times]• Gone in a generation: Here’s a powerful visual story showing how California’s fires are getting more destructive as a result of climate change. [The Washington Post]• Latino voters in California turned out for the midterms at levels normally seen in presidential elections, helping to flip seven House seats. [McClatchy]• The first in a series of storms swept across the Southland, causing evacuations, beach closings and debris flows. Lightning also struck a jet at LAX (no injuries were reported) and the Chevron refinery in El Segundo. [The Los Angeles Times]• My colleague Dana Goldstein wrote about meeting Alex Caputo-Pearl, now the president of the Los Angeles teachers’ union, in 2011. She’s been reporting on education for 13 years now, and times have changed. [The New York Times]• Another way education is changing? For the first time in 15 years, applications to U.C. schools from would-be freshmen dropped — a sign that declining college enrollment nationally could be spreading to the West Coast. [The Los Angeles Times]• Yesterday would have been Jackie Robinson’s 100th birthday. So here are 100 photos from his rich and complex life — including his time as a standout athlete at U.C.L.A. [The New York Times]• Clementine Creevy, the frontwoman of the band Cherry Glazerr, has proudly represented Los Angeles’s do-it-yourself rock scene since she was a teenager. The band’s third album is worth a listen, Jon Pareles writes. [The New York Times]• Yes, the government shutdown caused some lasting damage to national parks. But it’s kind of nice to read about elephant seal pups that had taken over a parking lot at the Point Reyes National Seashore. “What an interesting management challenge for us,” the park superintendent said. [The Press Democrat]• The Oscars are coming up. The Carpetbagger, Kyle Buchanan, writes that at this point, the people running the show seem almost ashamed. They even managed to upset Lin-Manuel Miranda — although the Academy relented on the point of contention, sort of. [The New York Times]I’ll save you the Google: The game, in Atlanta, starts at 3:30 p.m. Pacific time. You can watch it on CBS or stream it for free at CBSSports.com, the app or on CBS All Access.The arguably better game, the Puppy Bowl, starts at 12 p.m. on Animal Planet.If you feel like going out, here’s a list from LAist of places that will have deals or will be showing the game in the L.A. area. Here’s one for San Diego from KGTV. And here’s one for the Bay from Eater.Have a great weekend. (We’ll have a holiday recommendation from Tejal Rao on Monday.)California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement