AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyA freakish injury to Duke’s Zion Williamson, college basketball’s best and most prominent player, only seconds into a game on Wednesday night has instantaneously renewed a debate about the contradictions of the sport’s economic foundation, shining a harsh new light on the N.C.A.A.’s policy of amateurism and the influence of billion-dollar shoe companies.It also raised an important question: Should Williamson ever suit up for another college game?Fans were asking the question. An N.B.A. player was, too, even before Duke announced that Williamson had sprained his right knee in the fall.“It’s a legitimate question,” said Ramogi Huma, the founder and president of the College Athletes Players Association, an advocate for players’ rights.In the first minute of top-ranked Duke’s game against its archrival, eighth-ranked North Carolina, Williamson, a 6-foot-7, 285-pound forward whose game is a blend of quickness and power, pivoted with the ball near the free-throw line. As he planted a foot to reverse direction, his left sneaker collapsed and tore apart from the sheer torque of the move.Williamson fell backward in a split, grabbing his right knee. He walked off the court, and did not return. Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said afterward that Williamson had sustained a knee injury, but that the joint was “stable.”Pending further testing, the general sense is that Williamson — and Duke, and Nike, which made the shoe — had avoided the worst. Williamson, widely considered the nation’s best college player, is expected to be available to Duke in time for its conference tournament or the N.C.A.A. tournament, which begins in a month.That is, should Williamson elect to return.Huma cited the example of a top football player who found himself with a more serious injury a few years ago; that player elected to end his college career prematurely, to limit the risk to his professional payday. “To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Huma said.The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple. Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.That is how the college sports economy works, even as Duke; its conference, the Atlantic Coast Conference; television networks; and, of course, Nike, the apparel company that sponsors Duke and made the shoe that so spectacularly ripped apart, reap billions of dollars from the efforts and talents of preprofessional athletes like Williamson.As a private university, Duke does not release details of its apparel deals. The university recently extended its current agreement through 2027. North Carolina, 12 miles away, receives about $10 million a year from Nike. Texas, Michigan and Ohio State, which have more prominent football programs than Duke and North Carolina, have Nike deals worth closer to $17 million annually.Tickets to Wednesday night’s game, at Duke, were being offered for more than $2,000 on the secondary market.Williamson, so far, has earned nothing. Partly for this reason, everyone agrees that he is planning to enter this year’s N.B.A. draft, the first for which he is eligible. He is widely expected to be the No. 1 overall pick and receive a starting contract that would net him tens of millions of dollars. Even before that — but only after his college career is over — the telegenic Williamson, known since high school for his thunderous dunks, will be free to sign million-dollar endorsement deals.The only thing that could halt these inevitabilities would be a serious injury that substantially lowered his draft value. While there is insurance for this kind of event, it rarely pays out and most likely could never account for the loss of value of Williamson’s future professional contracts.So the argument goes: Why chance it by returning to Duke at all?Even if Williamson has a simple sprain of his medial collateral ligament — a minor injury that in a perfect world might not sideline him for more than a week or two — the risk of returning to a team that does not pay him is borne solely by Williamson.Donovan Mitchell, who played for two years at Louisville before the Utah Jazz selected him in the 2017 N.B.A. draft, suggested as much in a tweet after Williamson was hurt on Wednesday night, writing, “Again let’s remember all the money that went into this game … and these players get none of it … and now Zion gets hurt … something has to change @NCAA.”There are, however, also reasons for Williamson to return to try to help the Blue Devils win their sixth national championship. He may feel loyalty to his teammates, who include several other freshmen likely bound for the N.B.A. this year, or to his coaches. Many young basketball players grow up watching the N.C.A.A. tournament and dream of playing in it themselves; a star turn in March and April would enhance Williamson’s formidable marketability, even if it could do little to raise his draft stock.Still, even college administrators said he should at least consider skipping it.“Every time there’s something like this, there needs to be continual exploration and dialogue about what, if anything, should be done to make it different,” said Dan Beebe, a consultant and former commissioner of the Big 12 Conference.“Do we provide more resources because of all the money coming in and others who are benefiting from it — including coaches, athletic directors, commissioners?” Beebe added. “But then you get into really complex questions that need to be asked about how far do you go with that?”In football, a more injury-prone sport, there have been recent examples of players skipping season-ending bowl games before they enter the N.F.L. draft. In October, Ohio State defensive lineman Nick Bosa, a junior, had surgery after a core muscle injury. While there was no timetable for his return, he announced then that he would withdraw from college to focus on recovering and training for the draft.The questions surrounding Williamson’s options are related to those that an N.C.A.A. commission addressed last season after federal prosecutors revealed extensive corruption in college basketball recruiting. Some of the remedies the commission proposed could eliminate future situations like Williamson’s. For instance, it lobbied the N.B.A. and its players’ union to eliminate the current rule requiring players to be a year removed from high school before playing in the league. The league already plans to create the opportunity for elite players to earn $125,000 salaries in its developmental league rather than attend college.But the commission did not address what many say is the fundamental issue: the gap between the money that players like Williamson generate for universities, leagues, apparel companies and others, and those players’ inability to be compensated.In that light, what might be most shocking about Williamson’s current situation is that something like it did not happen sooner.On Wednesday, hours before the Duke-North Carolina game, Huma was on the phone with a staff member for a Washington state senator who is sponsoring a bill that would permit athletes to be paid and to retain agents.“I literally gave the example: What if Zion Williamson got hurt?” Huma said.“I guarantee you,” he added, “if Duke were free to offer Zion Williamson money for him to play, they would jump at the chance.”An earlier version of this article misstated the listed height and weight of Zion Williamson. He is 6-foot-7 and 285 pounds, not 6-foot-9 and 280 pounds.Advertisement