AdvertisementSupported byNATIONALAn article on Monday about the influence of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee in Washington referred imprecisely to Israel’s activities on the West Bank and a letter from Representative Jan Schakowsky. Israel had proposed demolishing Palestinian homes, not entire communities and had not conducted the demolition. Ms. Schakowsky was objecting to the demolition proposal.SPORTSAn article on Wednesday about Juventus Football Club misstated the given name of a Juventus player. He is Federico Bernardeschi, not Fernando.ARTSAn article on Wednesday about the indictment of the actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin in an alleged college admissions scandal misstated the name of a charity cited in the indictment. It is the Key Worldwide Foundation, not the Key World Foundation.•A picture caption with a film review on Wednesday about “Rezo” misidentified the film shown in the picture. It was a frame from “Tale of Tales,” not “Rezo.”OBITUARIESAn obituary on Wednesday about the drummer Hal Blaine, who played on countless hit records, misstated the given name of a guitarist who was one of his fellow studio musicians. He was Tommy Tedesco, not Tony.•An obituary on Feb. 25 about the opera singer Hilde Zadek referred incorrectly to the production of “Aida” in which she made her debut with the Vienna State Opera in 1947. It was sung in German, not Italian. The obituary also referred incorrectly to Stettin, where Ms. Zadek’s family moved in 1920. It was part of Germany at the time — not the German Empire, which ended when Kaiser Wilhelm II abdicated in 1918.•An obituary on March 1 about the composer, conductor and pianist André Previn misstated the year he and his fourth wife, Heather, divorced. It was 2002, not 1999.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement