Times InsiderTimes photographers like Doug Mills watched the game from the viewfinders of their cameras.David Tyree's catch in Super Bowl XLII was the unforgettable play on the winning drive.CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesSupported byBy Jake LucasTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.Doug Mills, a New York Times photographer who usually covers politics in Washington, has lost count of exactly how many of the 53 Super Bowls he’s photographed. But his best guess: Sunday was his 22nd time on the sidelines of the country’s consistently most popular entertainment event on television.As millions of Americans set down buffalo chicken dips and cold beers in front of the TV and crowded into bars to watch the contest between the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots in Super Bowl LIII, Mr. Mills packed three cameras, four lenses, two extra batteries and extra Ethernet cables, and headed into Atlanta’s Mercedes-Benz Stadium.The Super Bowl is a special assignment for photographers, up there with the Olympic Games and presidential campaigns — but packed into just a few hours.“Just like the athletes, the photographers have to be on their game,” Mr. Mills said.He was one of three photographers shooting the game and surrounding pageantry for The Times’s sports desk on Sunday. They were joined by five reporters and two photo assistants, plus another photographer shooting photos for the graphics desk. And they filed to four photo editors, six word editors and two graphics editors.Those three sports photographers were poised to take a lot of pictures: Records from The Times’s photo lab show that three people produced just over 16,000 images at the 2017 game. Mr. Mills estimated he’d take 2,000 to 3,000 this year.“All you can do is ask for it to happen in front of you — the big play,” Mr. Mills said.The task for photographers shooting the game is to tell the story of the night, and it promises the chance to capture sports history. Like in 2008 when Mr. Mills photographed David Tyree catching a pass on his helmet during a drive that won the Giants Super Bowl XLII and spoiled the Patriots’ perfect season. Or in 2015, when A.J. Mast, who joined Mr. Mills on his fifth time shooting the game for The Times, photographed the Patriots’ Malcolm Butler intercepting an ill-advised Seahawks pass in the end zone, securing Super Bowl XLIX for New England (“a game-telling picture,” Mr. Mast said).To capture those moments, they said, they absorb themselves in the game, trying to anticipate significant plays based on how the game unfolds.“I call it staying in the viewfinder,” Mr. Mast said.And they must be thorough, getting everything that could be significant from a variety of perspectives. There’s no telling whether a first-quarter touchdown will turn out to be the only touchdown of the game, or whether a referee will end up making a call that alters the game’s course. By the end, they must also have images that reflect how the game was won in between those memorable moments — the workhorse plays that add up to the title.“If Los Angeles is dominating and most of your photos are of Tom Brady passing, that doesn’t make sense,” said Kevin D. Liles, who photographed the game for The Times for the first time.Mr. Liles shot the game from above in the stands, while Mr. Mills and Mr. Mast were on the field in either end zone. They used Ethernet lines that plugged into their cameras to file photos directly to editors in New York. In previous years, The Times had runners take memory cards from photographers on the field to an editor in a photo workroom at the stadium. But last year, many of the photo editors were at the Olympics in South Korea, so The Times used the Ethernet lines for the first time. Mr. Mast said the new workflow allowed the photo team to get a picture from the field onto the home page in a matter of minutes.The team of photographers at the game for The Times is also responsible for capturing the pomp and entertainment around the game. At halftime, Mr. Mills and Mr. Mast knew to look for someone seizing the spotlight to make a political statement (or at least start a viral moment).Bedel Saget, a sports graphics editor for The Times, was also in the stands photographing the game, but with the goal of getting photos fit for an interactive that would break down key plays. He planned to be essentially “sitting on the shutter button,” he said, trying to capture as many frames of the action as possible and filing pictures of those important plays to a Google Drive. “That’s when the real magic happens.”In New York, the graphics editors Joe Ward and Anjali Singhvi pulled a photo from one of those key moments from the cloud and transformed it into a 3-D image using third-party software called Mental Canvas. They then created an interactive out of that 3-D image that allowed readers to examine the play from different perspectives, moving back and forth through those perspectives by scrolling. The interactive includes simple annotations with each perspective to guide the reader’s eye and explain how the play unfolded.When they first debuted this interactive during the 2018 World Cup, they pulled photos from the games days after they were over. But working with a live event like the Super Bowl, Mr. Ward and Ms. Singhvi must wait to jump on the right moment as the action unfolds, which presents a challenge.“We don’t know what we’re going to get,” Ms. Singhvi said.For all the excitement and potential glory of photographing the Super Bowl, Mr. Mills said there is one way it falls short of being a dream job.“It’s a terrible way to watch the game.”Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Advertisement