AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth A. HarrisThe me too Movement, an advocacy organization that fights sexual violence and harassment, released four short videos on Monday featuring survivors telling their stories.The animated videos — public service announcements that are all about a minute or two long — are each narrated by a survivor of sexual violence as elegant illustrations accompany their voices. (The survivors are not shown.)Words spoken by the narrators are also drawn on screen: “It wasn’t my fault.” “Speak out.” “Hope.” Each video ends with a message to other survivors: “We hear you. We see you. We believe you.”Two of the videos are narrated by women, Emily Waters and Daniela Contreras; Ms. Contreras speaks in Spanish. The others are narrated by men; one is an anonymous 31-year-old and the other is the actor and former football player Terry Crews.After the initial articles about Harvey Weinstein were published in 2017, Mr. Crews accused Adam Venit, an executive at a prominent talent agency, of having groped him. (Mr. Crews refers to the articles in his video, but Mr. Weinstein’s name is bleeped out as if it were a curse.) Mr. Venit eventually resigned and wrote a letter to Mr. Crews asking for his forgiveness.“I will not be shamed,” Mr. Crews said in his video. “I did nothing wrong.”It has been over a year since “Me Too” became a viral hashtag and a force that knocked men who were accused of abuse from positions of power. But the original Me Too movement was started more than 10 years ago by Tarana Burke, and it was her group made that the videos.“These powerful shorts place the focus back where it belongs: the dignity, humanity and healing of all survivors,” Ms. Burke said. “These courageous individuals are not alone and we hope that people around the world see their journeys reflected in the words of these brave individuals.”The videos, which were screened at the Sundance Film Festival on Saturday, were made in partnership with the marketing agency Deutsch. They were released on the me too Movement’s YouTube channel on Monday.Advertisement