AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy James PoniewozikIf you had the word “crisis” in your presidential address drinking game, my sympathies.In President Trump’s first televised address from the Oval Office, and the rebuttal from Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Charles Schumer, there was a lot of crisis talk: “Crisis of the heart,” “Manufacturing a crisis.” The president cast the crisis as a dire, dangerous wave of immigration coming across the Mexican border. For the Democrats, the crisis was the extended government shutdown, precipitated by Mr. Trump’s insistence on funding for his promised border wall.What there was not, after two days of media drama, was a convincing argument for why this needed to be a prime-time event at all. There was no news. There was no new argument. There was just a wall of sound, and the American viewing audience paid for it.Nor was there much compelling television, unless you’re an avid maker of internet memes. This was not a friendly setting for either party.The Oval Office, which can confer gravitas on a typical president, simply saps this atypical one. Mr. Trump comes alive playing off a crowd, like the ones he drove wild with promises that Mexico would pay for the wall. Plopped behind a desk, sniffling, reading sleepily from a teleprompter, he was a comedian playing an empty room.Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer, meanwhile, shared a lectern in a hallway, side by side, one glaring as the other spoke, looking unfortunately like a cross between Grant Wood’s “American Gothic” and the twins from “The Shining.”There was a bit of new rhetoric from Mr. Trump (his prepared speech referenced morality, something he rarely does off the cuff), and a few sound bites from the opposition (“We don’t govern by temper tantrum,” Mr. Schumer said). But you heard nothing you couldn’t absorb from a few minutes surfing cable news, or political Twitter, any time of the day.So what did all this accomplish? Well, it got Mr. Trump on TV, his true home. After a run of headlines for the new Democratic House, it gained him two days of newscasts about him, him, him. Cable reporters gave hourly updates on whether the president might declare a national emergency. He became the protagonist again, the home audience hanging on for the dramatic reveal.The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.The real crisis revelation, honestly, was a crisis of TV standards, which came long before the cameras started rolling. On Monday, the networks hemmed, wobbled, then decided to give Mr. Trump unfiltered access to their audience, on a topic on which he has a clear record of, well, “lies,” “falsehoods,” “misstatements” — I’ll leave it to you and your thesaurus.Whatever the semantics, the networks know they can’t trust Mr. Trump to tell the truth. They know this because he went on live TV twice last week — in a Cabinet meeting and in a long Rose Garden ramble — and said numerous things about this very topic that were demonstrably, empirically false.Assessing whether a source is credible isn’t bias. It’s not political. It’s journalism. In this case, the networks had more evidence than Charlie Brown did about Lucy and her football. (This comparison may be unfair to Charlie Brown, who did not act out of fear that the football would tweet mean things about him.)Instead, the broadcast networks carried Mr. Trump’s address live, and without the real-live, onscreen fact-checking that news outlets have experimented with in other speeches.ABC scrambled to cram in speed-talking fact-checks between speeches, its correspondents correcting information about the number of illegal border crossings, fact-checking Mr. Trump’s claim that Mexico would pay for the wall and noting that most heroin comes into the U.S. through legal border crossings. NBC and CBS focused more on the politics of the shutdown, going forward. (The cable networks, of course, had all night to debate and speculate.)CBS’s screen graphics were especially friendly to the president. The chyrons under its analysis read “President Trump: ‘The Border Wall Will Pay for Itself’” — with no assessment of the claim — “President Trump: Border Wall Is ‘Just Common Sense’” and “Pres. Trump: Securing Border a ‘Choice Between Right and Wrong.’” There were no captions quoting the Democratic rebuttal.Live airtime for Oval Office addresses isn’t an entitlement. The broadcast networks declined to air a 2014 speech by Barack Obama — on immigration! — on the grounds that it would be essentially political. They could have done the same for Mr. Trump, then covered the news he made, if there was any, with context and fact-checks.Instead, they made a gutless decision to put appearances or tradition or the fear of a presidential ragetweet over their responsibility to keep their audience from being misinformed, and for a partisan fizzle of a news event.We will see how Mr. Trump fares with the Democrats. But the TV networks put up as much of a barrier as a wall made of toothpicks.Advertisement