AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor Mather and Kevin DraperJason Witten, the ironman Dallas Cowboys tight end who retired from the N.F.L. and joined “Monday Night Football” last year, announced Thursday that he would return to the team. By the time the season starts, he will be 37.“The fire inside of me to compete and play this game is just burning too strong,” Witten said in a statement. “This team has a great group of rising young stars, and I want to help them make a run at a championship. This was completely my decision, and I am very comfortable with it. I’m looking forward to getting back in the dirt.”The Cowboys were 10-6 last season with a wild-card playoff win. But their top tight end, Blake Jarwin, had only 307 receiving yards. Dallas missed the playoffs in Witten’s last season.When Witten retired in May, he said of his decision, “Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.”He made 11 Pro Bowls, including the one in his final season, and caught 1,152 passes for 12,448 yards, both Cowboys records. He ranks fourth in the N.F.L. in career catches behind Jerry Rice, Tony Gonzalez and Larry Fitzgerald. He was also known as a strong run blocker.Though he played 16 games in every season except his first, his statistics dipped in his final years. In his last season, he had 63 catches and 560 yards receiving, the lowest figures since his rookie season.Witten signed a four-year, $29.6 million contract extension with the Cowboys in 2017 but retired just one year later and joined a reimagined “Monday Night Football” booth on ESPN. He worked alongside Joe Tessitore, the play-by-play voice; Anthony McFarland, an analyst; and Lisa Salters, who reported from the sidelines.ESPN had hoped to replicate the magic happening at CBS. A year earlier, CBS had hired Witten’s quarterback with the Cowboys, Tony Romo, and made him the network’s lead football analyst. Romo was an instant hit and received near-universal praise for his ability to predict plays.But from the start, the Tessitore, McFarland and Witten booth struggled. Witten often stumbled over his lines — his most notable moment was when he said that the N.F.L. had gone “left wing” in its protection of quarterbacks — and sometimes spoke in platitudes. McFarland, instead of sitting in the broadcast booth, provided commentary from an odd cranelike contraption on the sideline that ESPN called the Booger Mobile.Witten’s performance was savaged by sports media critics, who wondered how long ESPN would keep the booth together. “‘Monday Night Football’ has a big problem: Jason Witten,” read one Boston Globe headline. Witten and Jay Rothman, the show’s producer, asked for patience, and Rothman insisted Witten’s job was safe.In a statement Thursday, ESPN thanked Witten for his contributions and said, “We understand Jason’s desire to return to the Dallas Cowboys.”ESPN said its plans for the 2019 “Monday Night Football” booth had not been determined.Advertisement