AdvertisementSupported byOn SoccerBy Rory SmithDORTMUND, Germany — There are times these days when Marco Reus finds himself in the middle of the field at Borussia Dortmund’s Signal Iduna Park, watching as Jadon Sancho and Jacob Bruun Larsen and Achraf Hakimi tear around him, a blur of yellow and black, and remembering what it was like to be young.Not that Reus is what most of us would call old; he is not quite what his peers would call old, either. That is how he feels, though. “I am old, my friend,” he said. “In our business, now, when you are 29 or 30, you are old.” He delivers it with a smile, an acknowledgment that he is hamming it up, just a little, but the sentiment is real.Reus feels old in the sense that he is starkly aware that he is no longer young. He knows that whenever he sees Sancho, Larsen and the rest of Dortmund’s shooting stars, the way they play with boldness and fearlessness. They look to him like “young horses,” wild and free.Reus knows that feeling well, that glorious weightlessness, unencumbered by thoughts of “what will happen later, what happens after you finish,” the end so distant that you cannot believe it will ever come.He was like that once, when he was one of the standard-bearers of the new German generation that was going to lift the World Cup in 2014, a winger of pace and cunning and dead-eyed finishing, first with Borussia Mönchengladbach and then as part — a key part — of Jürgen Klopp’s Dortmund team.He remembers it well enough to know that he no longer has it, that it has disappeared at some point along the way. And yet it is hard to conceive of Reus as a “veteran,” as he puts it. Partly, that is because he does not really look the part. His hair is a little darker than it used to be, no longer colored a bright blond, but his face is still smooth-skinned, and his voice is still soft, boyish. He hardly fits the stereotype of the grizzled, wizened pro.And partly it is because it feels as if Reus, even on the cusp of his 30th birthday, is still somehow a talent-in-waiting, his potential not yet fully tapped. For a player regarded as one of Europe’s best for much of the last decade, he has an air of one of the sport’s lost boys.When Dortmund re-signed Reus — he was released from its youth system as a teenager — after its last Bundesliga title, in 2012, he was supposed to be the player who lifted the club to the next level.Klopp believed Reus represented a scarcely believable bargain — “his real market value is much higher” than the nearly $20 million he cost, he said — while the Dortmund chief executive, Hans-Joachim Watzke, felt Reus might be able to “define an era” for the club, in the way that “Uwe Seeler did at Hamburg and Steven Gerrard at Liverpool.”Franz Beckenbauer identified him, along with Mario Götze, as Germany’s brightest hopes. The two helped Dortmund to the 2013 Champions League final; Reus was penciled in as a starter in Joachim Löw’s Germany team for the 2014 World Cup.And then, 10 hours before Germany was scheduled to travel to Brazil, Reus tore his ankle ligaments in his final pretournament friendly. He punched the ground in frustration. Germany’s team flew without him. It came home a month later as the world champion.Reus did his rehab, returned to fitness, seemed ready to break through into the elite once more. Before the European Championship in 2016, Löw said that Reus “hugely enriched” the Germany side. But he missed that tournament through injury, too (Germany reached the semifinals).Another recovery, another fresh start. In 2017, EA Sports made him the cover star of that year’s edition of its FIFA game, an honor usually afforded to Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo; that was the sort of company Reus was expected to keep. Dortmund made the German Cup final that year. Reus, after so many delays, had the first silverware of his career in his grasp.He picked up an injury in the first half. At halftime, Dortmund’s doctors informed him that they believed he had torn his anterior cruciate ligament, and that he would be sidelined for six months, eight months, maybe more. He called his parents, and his girlfriend, Scarlett, and cried. “It’s bad,” he told them. Dortmund went on to win.That evening, Reus stopped to talk to reporters. They asked him if he knew the extent of the injury. “It is just a little cruciate,” he told them. Dortmund’s communications team was baffled. There is, they knew, and Reus knew, no such thing as a little cruciate injury.“Negative experiences teach you what to say,” Reus said, explaining how he could be so relaxed. It was not, though, an act of bravado. He had suffered injuries before, setbacks bad enough that he had once said he would happily trade all of the money he had made during his career for his fitness.This injury was the worst of all of them, and yet it had, he said, “caused something in my head to accept it.” That is not to say he did not suffer. In the hospital, a couple of days later, “once the adrenaline had worn off,” Reus felt that familiar bleakness setting in. He still had times when he “got emotional, angry, screamed, cried,” but he knew that he had to get it out, get over it, get on with it.“If it stays inside, you get sad, and you never get to the point where you can make the next step,” he said. “You can be sad for a couple of days, and nobody will be angry with you. But for weeks and months? It does not help.”He did not, though — not then, not during any of his injuries, not during any of the time that he lost — start to feel he was cursed. He never asked why this was happening to him, why he had so much snatched away from him, why fate seemed arranged that he would remain a what if, one of those players who never quite becomes — through no fault of his own — what he was supposed to be.“It is human to think about what I have missed,” he said. “But if I regret too much, think about what I have lost, I lose focus on what I need to do. You cannot rewind. This is not a computer game that you can play again. All I can do is try to be better, to be luckier, next time.”That is not the only change in perspective injury has afforded him. “You have a lot of time to think about other things, too,” he said. Over the eight months of his rehabilitation, Reus — by his own estimation — grew up. “You become aware of what you are doing, and what comes next, and when that will start,” he said.He turns 30 in May. By that stage, if all goes well, he will have become a father for the first time. He is no longer young, even if he is not quite old. “I have three or four years left,” he said of his playing career. “That is still quite a period, but football goes fast.”He has made no firm decisions on what he will do when his career ends — he would prefer not to go into senior management, but coach children, if he stays in soccer, because that is when “you should be having the most fun” — though he has a few ideas. He has not forgotten what it is to be footloose, carefree, but that does not mean he envies Sancho, Larsen and his other young teammates. He does not resent the clock for ticking.“The injuries have taught me to enjoy the time I have on the field, the time I am training with the guys,” he said. “As you get older, you learn it will end at some point, and so you cherish the moments you are healthy.” Those young horses are lucky, he knows, to feel it will never end. But he would not trade places with them. When you know that time is limited, and time is precious, you appreciate it all the more.Follow Rory Smith on Twitter: @RorySmith.Advertisement