AdvertisementSupported byBig CityBy Ginia Bellafante[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The antics of the marching band at Columbia University were not like the banh mi at Oberlin, enraging students with its ciabatta and coleslaw and dark sins of cultural appropriation. Steeped in longstanding customs, the band’s best-known ritual, born of the rebellions of the 1960s, was not an obvious candidate for a trigger warning either, given that it was entirely predictable and widely familiar.Every May and December, for more than 40 years, late at night just before the beginning of finals, band members would arrive in Room 209 of Butler Library to play loudly and perform a short comedy routine, much of which was aimed at satirizing inane campus policies and ineffective administrators. The semiannual event, known as Orgo Night (so named because it was originally held right before organic chemistry exams), was meant to signal to the world that Columbia was a place of occasional levity — that the student experience went beyond the toil and grind. Columbia’s reputation for sociality and fun is widely known as the weakest in the Ivy League.Then in December of 2016 came what some students called the actual “war on fun,” or whatever existed of it. The administration told the band it could no longer hold Orgo Night at Butler because it was too loud and distracting. The school’s head librarian, Ann Thornton, felt that it threatened the sanctity of library space at a time when so many students were so anxiously studying. The band would have to take its shenanigans somewhere else.The band disagreed. In a lengthy statement, the band’s board pointed out that by performing in the library, “the band disrupts not just a library but also the campus’s pervasive stress culture.” It was important to show students that they could seek relief from that culture, for what was essentially some diverting nonsense, lasting no more than 45 minutes. Although it went unmentioned in the letter, the semester was ending on a particularly unsettling note, after a spate of student suicides, which some on campus spoke about within the context of the school’s ethos of intensity and unhealthy competition.Beyond that, students actually seemed to enjoy Orgo Night in Butler Hall, crowding the room and saving seats for one another.The band abided the new rule until it didn’t. The following December, in 2017, it sneaked instruments into Butler the day before Orgo Night and performed there anyway. As Samantha Rowan, president of the Columbia University Band Alumni Association, put it, the students were tired of dealing with “a disrespectful administration” that treated them like “naughty children.” Officials were angry. “Which was fair, I guess,” Cameron Adam Danesh-Pajou, the band’s head manager, remarked to me recently.But the consequences did not seem so, especially given the legacy of 1968, when student demonstrations that resulted in some of the largest mass arrests in New York City’s history enshrined protest and defiance as essential elements of Columbia’s identity. Even though the band behaved itself, performing outside the following spring, the administration told band managers this past fall that it was pulling a bulk of the group’s funding —$15,000 of the $25,000 it received annually to cover the cost of instruments, repairs, travel to football and basketball games and so on — at the end of the current academic year.Mr. Danesh-Pajou explained that one result of the cuts is that it would be harder for all but the most privileged students to participate in the band, because the band has typically covered meals on the road and various other expenses. As it happens, the cuts are unfolding against the backdrop of new data from the National Center for Education Statistics showing that over the past decade, the total cost of attending Columbia as an undergraduate — after grants and scholarships — has steadily decreased for middle and upper middle class students while it has steadily gone up for lower-income students.“When you commit an act of civil disobedience you should expect a sanction,” Dan Carlinsky, who serves on an advisory board in the band’s alumni association, told me. “But in this case, because of the actions of a few students, the band was getting punished in perpetuity.” Mr. Carlinsky, who functions as the band’s historian, pointed out that the university’s position also seemed hypocritical, given that it has highlighted Orgo Night in some of its fund-raising and recruitment materials as evidence that, contrary to assumptions, Columbia does in fact posses humor and spirit.When I asked a spokesman for Columbia about the stipend reduction, the university provided the response it has given band members all along — that it was revoking funding because the band needed to change its bureaucratic designation to better align itself with other student groups that were subject to greater accountability. The marching band was something of an outlier in the way it was overseen, but if it changed its status, it would be available for different funding streams.The band has countered that those streams could not deliver anywhere near the amount of money it needs to function. Even travel to home games during the football season is expensive; it’s not practical to take a tuba on the subway.Was something else going on? Some in the alumni community, like Ms. Rowan, believed that the university had come to see the comedy component of Orgo Night, which was not always 100 percent dependably anodyne, as a liability in an age of heightened political sensitivities. Certainly some students took offense at some of the material, Avah Toomer, an undergraduate, told me. I contacted her because she had written a piece for The Columbia Spectator in which she questioned the band’s decision to pursue “tradition over courtesy.” In an email, she described Orgo Night as a “mildly inconvenient sonic affront,’’ but she found the jokes made in the most recent round, for the most part, to be witty and insightful.The skits took aim at Brett Kavanaugh, campus housing, Columbia’s slow-to-change core curriculum and Ivy League admissions (“we should just abolish affirmative action for white people, better known as: athletic recruitment, legacy admissions, and Midwestern representation”) among other subjects.It is hard to see who would be aggrieved by these kinds of attacks on power, except perhaps the power structure itself. “We live in a world where people don’t listen to one another,” Ms. Rowan remarked. “I’d like for everyone to sit down and really hear each other out. But that just doesn’t seem to be happening.”Email bigcity@nytimes.com. Follow Ginia Bellafante on Twitter: @GiniaNYTAdvertisement