AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiA biographical drama starring Keira Knightley is streaming on Amazon. And “Terrace House: Opening New Doors” returns on Netflix.COLETTE (2018) Stream on Amazon; rent on Amazon, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube.  The French author Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette (Keira Knightley) broke boundaries in more ways than one. This period drama by Wash Westmoreland charts her evolution from a country girl to a fearless game-changer whose somewhat risqué novels about strong women earned her a nomination for the Nobel Prize in Literature. But many hurdles came before success, most notably those created by her first husband, Henry Gauthier-Villars (Dominic West), a brash Parisian writer with the pen name Willy. When he starts running out of money to pay his writers, Willy asks Colette to ghostwrite a novel for him. It becomes a huge success and Willy forces Colette to keep the words coming. That pressure, and a few affairs, strains their relationship, but it also inspires Colette to strike out on her own. In her review in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis wrote that Colette “is never as wild as you might hope for a literary titan and voluptuary who first writes herself into history with her ‘Claudine’ novels while bedding men and women alike. But she’s consistently, gratifyingly, full-bodied company.”TERRACE HOUSE: OPENING NEW DOORS Stream on Netflix. Some questions to keep in mind during Part 6 of this addictive Japanese reality series about a group of strangers under a single roof: Has the crew moved houses? Will this batch of episodes be the last in “Opening New Doors?” Who are some of the new faces that will be joining the fun? And of course, who’s going to find love, or something like it, this time around?JIMMY CARR: THE BEST OF, ULTIMATE, GOLD, GREATEST HITS (2019) Stream on Netflix. The British comedian Jimmy Carr delivers a compilation of his best one-liners and provocative jokes in this new special. Carr is also the host of the Netflix game show “The Fix,” in which comics gather to try to solve gargantuan problems — climate change, the wealth gap — in under 30 minutes.PROJECT BLUE BOOK 10 p.m. on History. This season finale reimagines the panic after multiple U.F.O. sightings paralyzed Washington in 1952. Racing against the clock, top officials enlist Hynek (Aidan Gillen) and Quinn (Michael Malarkey) to find out exactly what had been spotted.THE BACHELOR 8 p.m. on ABC.  For dramatic moments this season, nothing tops the time our bachelor, Colton, tried to escape the compound by jumping the fence.  Then again, this is Bachelor Nation. That former football player felt crushed after Cassie said she couldn’t reciprocate his love. Season 23 wraps up with the heartbroken bachelor dishing on his last days on the show.CORPORATE 10:30 p.m. on Comedy Central. The second season of this nihilistic workplace comedy ends with two back-to-back episodes. Jake (Jake Weisman) gets an irritating co-worker, and after their boss ups the ante on a project, Matt (Matt Ingebretson) and Jake forge their own paths.Advertisement