AdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanAn ESPN series covers the two-sport phenom Deion Sanders. And it’s the last day for Netflix subscribers to catch the Coen brothers’ classic “The Big Lebowski” on that platform. 30 FOR 30: DEION’S DOUBLE PLAY 9 p.m. on ESPN. During the past 10 years, ESPN’s “30 for 30” series has covered stories about the world’s most intriguing athletes and sports figures, like O. J. Simpson, Andrés Escobar and Bo Jackson. Jackson appears in this latest installment, which focuses on another two-sport athlete, Deion Sanders, and the 24 hours in 1992 when he attempted to play professional baseball, for the Braves, and football, for the Falcons. The documentary, narrated by the rapper Ludacris, features interviews with former Braves and Falcons players, coaches and sportscasters.TRUCK NIGHT IN AMERICA 10 p.m. on History. At a time when you can find a TV show that focuses on just about any niche topic — pimple-popping, extreme couponing, making cakes poorly — it’s not surprising that there would be one completely devoted to large, customized trucks. The new season of this competition series pits five drivers against one another in monster-truck-rally-style challenges, like climbing mounds of crushed cars or trudging through swamps. The two best drivers will compete to win $10,000, taking their rigs through an obstacle course called the Green Hell.THE BIG LEBOWSKI (1998) on Netflix, Crackle, Google Play, YouTube, Amazon Prime, iTunes and Vudu. Last week, Jeff Bridges (who played the Dude in this movie) teased a reprisal of his cardigan-wearing character in a short clip on Twitter. And by Monday, fans of “The Big Lebowski” got the rest of the footage in the form of a short Super Bowl ad for Stella Artois, featuring the Dude alongside Carrie Bradshaw turning down their usual drinks of choice for the Stellas. Once you’ve had your fill of watching Bridges say “ar-toes,” drink down this original Coen brothers’ classic, if only to remind yourself of just how good it is. It leaves Netflix on Friday.TAG (2018) on HBO’s streaming platforms. Six years ago, The Wall Street Journal profiled a group of adult men in their 40s who, in the past two decades, had kept up a long-running game of tag since high school, flying around the country, hiding in bushes and popping out of car trunks to avoid being “it” for an entire year. By 2018, the incredible true antics had inspired a feature film, starring Jon Hamm, Ed Helms, Hannibal Buress, Jeremy Renner and Jake Johnson. And while the game and its players might seem juvenile, the film also touches on the anxiety that can accompany aging. In his review, The New York Times critic A. O. Scott wrote, “The story does wander into a few dark corners of middle age: romantic disappointment; addiction and recovery; the possibility of illness and the inevitability of death.”Advertisement