AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiThe comedian Amanda Seales dissects sexuality and race in a new special on HBO. And Willie Nelson takes the stage on “Austin City Limits.”AMANDA SEALES: I BE KNOWIN’ (2019) 10 p.m. on HBO; stream on HBO Go or HBO Now. In her first hourlong stand-up special, the comedian Amanda Seales (“Insecure,” “black-ish”) breaks down why catcalling is the opposite of complimenting and explains what differentiates a “Hannah” (a person who happens to be white) from a “Becky” (a white person). Seales hosts a weekly podcast called “Small Doses” and is touring with “Smart Funny & Black,” a game show she created that tests contestants’ knowledge of black culture and history.SLENDER MAN STABBING: THE UNTOLD STORY (2019) 8 p.m. on Reelz. In 2014, Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier, both 12, took their friend Payton Leutner into the Wisconsin woods and stabbed her 19 times. They said they did it to appease Slender Man, a shadowy, mythical character that has become a legend since taking shape in an online forum nearly a decade ago. (Leutner managed to crawl away and eventually recovered. Geyser, who wielded the knife, pleaded guilty to attempted first-degree intentional homicide and was sentenced to 40 years in a psychiatric hospital.) This new documentary special charts the events leading up to the crime through interviews with detectives, lawyers and relatives of the teenagers. The case also receives the documentary treatment in the 2016 HBO film “Beware the Slenderman.” (For those more interested in a fictional version, the 2018 horror flick “Slender Man” is available for rental on Amazon, Google Play or YouTube.)KNIGHT SQUAD 9 p.m. on Nickelodeon. The knights in training Arc (Owen Joyner) and Ciara (Daniella Perkins) rush to save the day in this Season 2 finale after hearing that Ryker (Geno Segers) nearly has his hands on the Armor of Astoria. Sydney Park, of “The Walking Dead” and “Spirit Riding Free,” guest stars.AUSTIN CITY LIMITS 11 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Willie Nelson performs songs off his Grammy-nominated album “My Way,” a collection of standards from the Great American Songbook that serves as a tribute to his friend Frank Sinatra.JERRY MAGUIRE (1996) stream on Amazon and Hulu; rent on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. Stream this romantic comedy by Cameron Crowe before it leaves Amazon Prime Video and Hulu at the end of the month. Tom Cruise stars as the memorable title character, a big-time sports agent who realizes he no longer enjoys the corporate detachment that comes with the job. That epiphany gets him fired, so he starts his own agency with the help of Dorothy (Renée Zellweger), a former co-worker, and manages to cling to one client, Rod (Cuba Gooding Jr. in a flamboyant, Oscar-winning performance), a football player who is at once admirable and unbearable (“Show me the money!”).An earlier version of this article reversed the parentheticals about Amanda Seales’s HBO special. It should be “differentiates a ‘Hannah’ (a person who happens to be white) from a ‘Becky’ (a white person),” not “differentiates a ‘Hannah’ (a white person) from a ‘Becky’ (a person who happens to be white).”Advertisement