AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders offer their ideas, which include mentions of Ann Coulter, Charlie Brown and a fence-renting company.To the Editor:Re “President Offers Deal on ‘Dreamers’ to Secure a Wall” (front page, Jan. 20) and “Senate Will Hold Competing Votes to End Shutdown” (front page, Jan. 23):President Trump and congressional Democrats appear to be locked in a political game of chicken, with federal government workers, government contractors and the public trapped in the middle. Mr. Trump’s offer of temporary protections for the Dreamers in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a border wall was quickly rejected by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Two measures ending the shutdown that will be before the Senate on Thursday are not expected to pass.The current situation is untenable. The burden on federal workers is onerous and unfair. Creative solutions are needed to end this impasse. I offer two.First, a proven mediator, such as former Senator George Mitchell, could be appointed in an attempt to bring the parties to an agreement. Second, a bipartisan blue ribbon commission — composed of experts from government, business and academia — could be created to offer recommendations on how best to address our border issues, including people and drugs coming into our country.Time is of the essence. A deal must be struck soon to avoid irreparable harm to the federal government.Todd J. SchwartzWall, N.J. To the Editor:The Democrats should seize on this chance to end the shutdown. There’s no downside for them. It is not a question of bargaining anymore but of the suffering of the country. But even so, it’s a good deal. The Dreamers will get something they would otherwise have not gotten. And President Trump has learned his lesson.His approval ratings have gone down. His base is unhappy. There will be no more Trump shutdowns. And Democrats will avoid the risk of a shift in blame to them for their intransigence. And, the clincher: Ann Coulter doesn’t like it.Howard RachlinNew YorkTo the Editor:How about this? Democrats put forward a bill in the House for border security of $12 billion. This would be for more border patrol officers, upgraded equipment, improved facilities, etc., but not a wall.This would allow Democrats to show that they are tough on border security by more than doubling President Trump’s proposed funding. The bill must focus purely on border security — no other Democratic wish list items or conditions.Would Republican members of Congress and the president bite? Perhaps they’d see it as face-saving. Conversely, to reject it would be seen as obstructionist, risking voter wrath at the next election.Jim SpanierHoustonTo the Editor:Set a date for all federal employees to picket in front of President Trump’s hotels. Nothing gets his attention like money.Barbara LloydStratford, Conn.To the Editor:For all of his manifold and well-documented deficiencies, President Trump is not nearly as naïve as Charlie Brown. If Mr. Trump buys into Nancy Pelosi’s assurances that border security, including a wall or other physical barrier, can be discussed once the government is reopened, he is no smarter than Charlie thinking that this time Lucy will not snatch the football away just as he is about to kick it.David MacNeilChatham, N.J. To the Editor:There was fencing around a construction site here in Queens that my wife and I passed this morning, and on it was a sign that read: National Rent A Fence. Seeing it, my wife laughed and said, “Maybe Trump should try that.”James J. RushBayside, QueensAdvertisement