AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNNatan Last, let’s go to the videotape.By Caitlin LovingerSUNDAY PUZZLE — Natan Last has a tremendous record for introducing elegant new entries (how had we lived without CAFFEINE FIX?) and a sharp eye for the type of wordplay that sneaks up on you (and, if you’re me, keeps right on going, just overhead). This is one of those puzzles. The solve is greatly enhanced by today’s constructor notes, so glean what details you can from Mr. Last — he mentors, and teaches people how to do this stuff, and has the type of loopy and flexible mind that slots together intricate bits and pieces to form a cohesive whole. It’s quite amazing.We’ve had a run of prominent Sunday themes that underpin an entire big grid. A bright puzzle like this, where one has to tease the tendrils of the theme out during the entire solve, is a lot of fun and a little bit of a palate cleanser.Much inscrutability today in that tendriled theme — if you don’t find what you’re looking for here, move on down a section.7A: A heartbreaking state of affairs, in the days of waning print circulation and instant feedback, is the lonely journalist sitting in the dark with his or her analytics panel open anxiously watching the CLICKS. There’s no market for quality over quantity anymore. (All of you are quality clicks, friends. High-class clicks.)71A: I don’t know if you’ve spent time in Louisiana or otherwise had the opportunity to “fais do-do,” or make a party happen, but if you have, then “makin’ groceries” probably sounded CAJUN to you. 72A: These are both astrological signs and AUTOS. If you happened to wonder if there was ever a “Scorpio” car, there was! It was gorgeous.2D: C.B. radios and their lingo go back about a century, and members of the “10 code,” common or relevant phrases that are coded to the number 10 with another number, were used by the police in the 1930s to make communication easier. It makes sense that TEN ONE would establish, right off the bat, that communication via the radio was staticky, faint or otherwise difficult to understand. Intentionally or not, the crossing here with SHE BEAR was cute because that could be a female cop. If a SHE BEAR in a plain brown wrapper takes your picture and turns on the bubble gum machine, you might be about to get a driving award.6D: The Nylons sang “The Lion Sleeps Tonight” and the Rayons sang “Do You Love Me.” Three makes a (highly synthetic) pattern; I always figured these bands were using the fabric names to be modern and slick, but the ORLONS apparently took their name as a spoof of a popular group at their high school, the Cashmeres. This was not the Cashmeres, by the way, who also had hits in the 60s.41D: Who else had “egg roll” at first? White House propaganda. If you went straight to EGG HUNT, maybe you thought of the Easter beagle.77D: After a 40-plus year absence, this is the second appearance in a few months of GAY PAREE, which looks so odd but was, as spelled, the title of a 1926 Broadway musical revue, and also in a title of a Cole Porter song for the 1953 show “Can-Can.”93D: This might have been the crunchiest “straight” clue today, heralding the 21st-century debut of OTOMI, or Hñäñhü, people of Central Mexico. I had never put a name to these marvelous textiles, but the Otomi are known for beautiful embroidery.There is a fairly well-known sporting event on telly this evening, so your minds may have been tuned to that frequency already, and we have a theme today that revolves around sportsmanship, or rather lack thereof, in four major athletic leagues — M.L.B. baseball, N.F.L. football, FIFA soccer and N.B.A. basketball. We seem to be missing N.H.L. hockey, probably because it’s difficult to play attempted murder for laughs, and that is what it takes to get thrown out of a hockey match (or so I thought — more on that later).There are three layers to each sports “play,” we’ll call them. The first two are codependent so we’ll address them together.First, there are four italicized clues, each linked to another entry — these are at 28A (linking to 102A), 48A (linking to 105A), 64A (linking to 87A) and 86D (linking to 65A). Each of these italicized clues refers to a star from one of the above sports leagues, getting “ejected,” or thrown out, of the entry that’s linked.Second, we have those linked clues, referred to above. Each is straightforward, but too tricky to come up with, at least for me, without a ton of crossing letters filled in. Even then, though, there’s a problem. Let’s look at the first example, 28A, “N.F.L. star ejected from 102-Across,” and 102A, “Entry fee.”I am enough of a nonfan to solve RICE at 28A, purely on the crosses, and have no idea who RICE is. (Not that it matters in this case, just letting you know — I did look all these guys up for the column, but totally drew a blank here to the point that I didn’t instantly connect RICE to a last name and wondered for a while what starchy grains had to do with anything.)At 102A, I had enough down entries pretty confidently inked to get __ __ __ ADMISSION, then __ OF ADMISSION, at which point the first notion of a rebus dawned on me. But I still racked my brain for a bit, getting stuck on “cost” or “rate” before filling in 92D, getting the “p” in ROPED at the beginning of 102A, and everything clicked. We’re looking at the P(RICE) OF ADMISSION. Jerry RICE was a 20-season N.F.L. star who most call the greatest wide receiver of all time. I don’t want to spoil all four, but at the same time they are each pretty tricky, so here are some hints, in gradients:48A, the “N.B.A. star ejected from 105-across,” is a modern-era basketball center who was probably more famous for getting fouled than getting ejected.105A(ONEAL) ARM CHILI64A, the “M.L.B. star ejected from 87-across,” is one of the original superstars of baseball who is famous for cursing an entire city.87ATHE T(RUTH) WILL SET YOU FREE86D, the “FIFA star ejected from 65-across,” is an Argentine soccer (football) forward who plays for Barcelona and has scored more goals than anyone except Ronaldo in their league.65A(MESSI)AH COMPLEXOther than scratching my head a little bit at 87A I thought these theme entries were a total riot.I mentioned a tertiary element, one that was quite edifying to yours truly and anyone else who is unfamiliar with the heartbreak of losing a favorite player to expulsion for some imaginary (or real) affront. Mr. Last has helpfully included, at 21A, 22A, 33A and 58A, actions that will get you ejected while playing each of the sports in question — a BEAN BALL, an ILLEGAL SLIDE TACKLE (sounds stylishly painful, very European), a HELMET HIT and a FLAGRANT FOUL. This last one does remind me of passionately rooting for John Starks back in the early 90s when the Knicks physically manifested most of Greek mythology — Sisyphus, Pandora, Icarus, Narcissus, Frustratus. I also thought of every crossword solver’s favorite hockey player, Bobby Orr, and thought he could figure in a cute “S(orr)y not s(orr)y” entry or some such pun. But this grid was plenty stuffed with theme, and very satisfying.This puzzle is a nice example of the benefits of having thoughtful soundboards for theme ideas — my original concept focused on only soccer, and I toyed with two extra thematic layers: a RED card rebus replacing the square where the player was “ejected,” as in HO[RED]SS ROMANTICS (with PELE getting the red card), and “sidelining” the ejected players, their entries appearing only along the puzzle’s rim.The current iteration is both more varied (lots of different sports and players, rather than one; including the reasons for ejection as a bonus) and compressed (trimming my kooky bells and whistles so the ejection gimmick stands out). It’s the product of lots of back and forth with Joel, and crossword greats like Brendan Emmett Quigley, Andy Kravis and more. All of which is to say that having people like that in my life makes the puzzles I construct better — and is a helpful reminder to make myself available for that kind of theme soundboarding, and more. Please check out the Crossword Collaboration group — its focus on getting more underrepresented groups published is written up here — and feel free to reach out!I also thought the edits on this puzzle were helpful from Will + team, pithier but keeping the (to me interesting or underreferenced) information in my clues for EMILE, MALCOLM X, MALI, COGNATE, CAJUN and (I can’t believe this stayed!) MARIE. Hope y’all enjoy the puzzle!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?Advertisement