AdvertisementSupported byThe state’s politicians have rejected the will of the voters and taken coverage from 60,000 Utahns.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.In November, the people of Utah voted to provide health insurance for about 150,000 state residents who lacked it. Last week, Utah’s legislators overruled their own constituents and took away insurance from about 60,000 of those 150,000 people.The legislators claimed they were trying to save money, but that’s not a credible rationale: The federal government would have covered the bulk of the cost. The true reason — which the legislators weren’t willing to admit publicly — was a philosophical objection to government-provided health insurance.Utah’s turnabout is the latest worrisome example of politicians rejecting the will of voters.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The offending politicians have been mostly Republican, as they are in Utah. “You see a rising, disturbing trend here of equivocation, if not worse, in the commitment to democratic norms on the part of a growing number of Republicans,” Larry Diamond, a Stanford University democracy expert, told my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick. “Is this what the Republican Party wants to be? The anti-democracy party?”There has also been one major example of Democratic officials deciding they don’t care what their constituents want: Last year, the city council in the District of Columbia reversed an increase in the minimum wage for tipped workers, even though the ballot initiative approving it had passed with 55 percent of the vote.City Lab’s Kriston Capps and Sarah Holder have put together a list of state legislatures that have overruled their own voters, including in Idaho, Maine and Michigan. In Missouri, some legislators have pushed to subvert a ballot initiative that would reduce gerrymandering. And in Utah, the legislature has also partly overturned a new law on medical marijuana.I find that last example especially helpful in thinking through my own view about this trend. I would vote against marijuana legalization, because I think it promotes drug use that damages health. But if my state voted to legalize marijuana in a referendum, I would still be unhappy if the legislature then reversed the result.A final point: I understand why some political scientists dislike government by ballot initiative. Direct democracy can sometimes create problematic laws. So if a state legislature wanted to reduce the ability of voters to make laws by referendum, I could see arguments in favor of doing so. But that’s very different from undoing the result of a referendum that has already passed.Sit, Zion, sit.The most exciting player in college basketball — Duke’s Zion Williamson — suffered a knee injury on Wednesday night, which raised a fascinating question, as Marc Tracy of The Times points out: Should Williamson sit out the rest of the college season, to avoid risk of further injury before he likely turns pro this summer?“The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple,” Tracy writes. “Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.”Duke is making bundles of money off Williamson and his teammates. So are ESPN, CBS and Nike, among others. But the players themselves get only scraps, until they turn pro.“To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Ramogi Huma, an advocate for players’ rights, told Tracy.I agree. Until college athletics has a fairer economic system, players should err on the side of extreme caution. Some top college football players have already begun skipping year-end bowl games, for this reason. Whatever Williamson does, I suspect we’ll see more athletes make similar decisions in coming years.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement