AdvertisementSupported byMy WorkoutThe three-time Stanley Cup champion is a fan of Joovv lights, ashwaganda herbs, PoV Sport and Lululemon. By Bee ShapiroDuncan Keith, 35, is a three-time Stanley Cup champion and Conn Smythe Trophy winner, who recently played his 1,000th professional hockey game, all with the Chicago Blackhawks. A small-town guy at heart, he splits his time between Chicago and Penticton, British Columbia, where he grew up. He took a moment out of his punishing National Hockey League season (his 14th!) to share his workout and wellness secrets, and why he is obsessed with infrared therapy lights. I get up around 8 a.m. In the 45 minutes before I leave the house, I have a routine: I go upstairs to my lab, where I have a bunch of little things that I do to stay healthy. I try to get as much sunlight as possible, but I also have Joovv lights — they’re red and infrared lights, which are very healing. Then I lay on my Bemer mat, which has electromagnetic currents, for eight minutes. I also have my supplements like glutathione and vitamin C, and liquid herbs like ashwaganda. Sometimes at night, I’ll sleep with a hydrogen inhaler. I’m a biohacker and a part-time hockey player. It’s basically better living with the help of science.During the season, I don’t do a whole lot of heavy lifting. I use PoV Sport, a machine that uses electricity to keep your muscles contracted. It’s about feeling strong without me having to do any excess movement. The off-season is when I work out the hardest. I’m in the gym about five times a week doing strength training. It’s all based on the Evo Ultrafit system that my strength trainer Jay Schroeder does. He’s based out of Phoenix. He trains a lot of professional football players and baseball players. It’s a lot of body-weight stuff and isometrics and speed Russian lunges. I’ll start ice skating in July. By the end of the August, I’m skating four to five times a week.For me, the biggest thing for my skin care is the Joovv light. But then my buddy is a real skin fanatic with lots of different things. He told me about this skin care company called Eminence, and once in a while I’ll use the exfoliator in the steam shower.I don’t love the hotel skin care stuff. I bring my own. I use Ancient Minerals body lotion that has magnesium in it. I order it off Amazon. My skin gets nice and moisturized but also gets a dose of magnesium. I use the Ben Greenfield’s serum, which is a mix of vitamin C and a bunch of different herbs. And then I do use cologne. I use the Tom Ford Neroli Portofino Acqua the most.I wouldn’t say I’m on any specific diet. I’ve read Dr. Mercola’s books and I followed his nutrition plan for a while. But now, I just eat healthy and the biggest thing is getting a lot of calories in. I’m always burning calories during the season, and I’m trying to keep my mass on.I read a lot of books and I listen to podcasts. My favorite is the Ben Greenfield fitness podcast. I guess you could call him a professional biohacker. I also listen to Aubrey Marcus and Joe Rogan.Right now, I’m reading “Medical Medium” by Anthony William. It’s nonfiction and about food and nutrition. I enjoy reading and learning about the body. The first chapter is a little bit goofy, but essentially it’s about how important carbs and fruits are. It goes against a lot of things you hear today. I try to dress nice, but I’m not always thinking about it. I really like AllSaints jeans. I get most of my jeans from there. If not that, then I like Hudson jeans or Vince sweatpants. They’re like a classier pair of sweats. Lululemon is always comfortable.I’ve been on ice skates ever since I was maybe 3 or 4. I was always trying to be a hockey player. But to play professionally, you have to have the determination and focus. I remember there were high school parties that I didn’t go to because I was always working on my game. I missed a lot of those times. You have to set a goal and not let anything get in your way. This involves not only yourself, but also your family and parents. They are all part of it.Advertisement