AdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. I was out in Portland, Ore., a while back for work, but I got nights off to see family and we used one of them to go to Han Oak, a casual-fantastic Korean restaurant owned and operated by the chef Peter Cho and his wife, Sun Young Park. A meal at Han Oak is essentially a meal in the couple’s home, the dining room crowded with new friends and everywhere the smell of wood smoke and crisping beef. We ordered the whole menu, and it was a revelation. But one dish in particular stuck out so much that I interrogated Cho about it that night in the restaurant, and later over the phone.Those conversations became the heart of my “Eat” column for The Times this week, and they led to this incredible recipe for Cho’s galbijjim (above), the classic Korean short-rib stew. I hope you will make galbijjim this weekend, to serve as many people as you can manage. The recipe calls for the addition of rice cakes at the end, but if you can’t find any at the market, don’t worry. Just serve the stew with rice. It’s so great.Make some stew this weekend, anyway, even if you don’t thrill to the flavors of Korea. For myself, I like this Doc Willoughby recipe for a cold-start tagine-style lamb stew. I like David Tanis’s recipe for mushroom stew as well. (As I do, come to think of it, his recipe for lobster stew with a pastry lid.) Julia Moskin’s spicy peanut stew with ginger and tomato is terrific vegan fare. My recipe for Jamaican oxtail stew is plain terrific. All the stews!Of course, stew’s not for everyone. So you might make pan pizza this weekend. (Recently, in Step 3 of that recipe, I’ve been using my stand mixer to really zip the dough around on high, which has worked wonders down the line, during the proofing.) You could make eggs Benedict. There are two big football games on Sunday. You should make game-day nachos. Chicken wings. Stuffed jalapeños. A fried eggplant hero.Rich fare, I know! For those who don’t want to play, try out some sweet and spicy tofu with soba noodles instead. A winter vegetable curry. Anna Jones’s amazing warm kale salad with coconut and tomato, so great.There are thousands and thousands of recipes awaiting your attentions on NYT Cooking. Go take a look, see what intrigues. (Yes, you need to be a subscriber to do that. Here is how to become one.) Come visit us on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter as well, or find me personally: @samsifton. Run into trouble along the way, with your cooking, with our technology? Write for help: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll get back to you.Now, please read this beautiful, haunting excerpt from a new memoir by Tommy Tomlinson that ran in The Atlantic recently, “The Weight I Carry.”Also this beautiful, haunting essay by Russell Worth Parker in Lauren Katzenberg’s essential At War section of The Times, “I’m Prepared to Talk About the Things I Did in Iraq. Are People Ready to Listen?”You should check out, as well, this Dwight Garner review in The Times of Doug Bock Clark’s new book, “The Last Whalers: Three Years in the Far Pacific With a Courageous Tribe and a Vanishing Way of Life.”(On a similar subject, and in case you missed me writing about it before: Robert Sullivan’s fantastic “A Whale Hunt: How a Native-American Village Did What No One Thought It Could.” Also, likewise, Julia O’Malley’s article for High Country News, “The Teenage Whaler’s Tale,” which has one of the best opening sentences in the history of whaling literature.)Finally, and nothing to do with cakes or ale: This is Jah Division, “Dub Will Tear Us Apart.” Have a great weekend. I’ll be back on Sunday.cookingcookingAdvertisement