AdvertisementSupported byThe Neediest Cases FundBy Adriana BalsamoEddie Rodriguez approached his financial counselor, beaming in his new navy suit.“It’s a small office,” said Mr. Rodriguez, 42, “but magic comes out of there.”Early last year, Mr. Rodriguez could hardly afford to pay his basic living expenses, let alone buy new clothes. After defaulting another time on his student loans, his Social Security disability benefits were again garnished, leaving him with little. Knowing he needed help, he sought assistance in June from the Financial Coaching Corps, part of the Community Service Society.Mr. Rodriguez is not alone in his struggle with student debt: Federal statistics show that nearly a third of the people who take out student loans have serious trouble repaying them.“A lot of my clients never received good information at any sort of point along the student loan journey,” said Mr. Rodriguez’s financial counselor, Courtney Davis, the community development specialist at Financial Coaching Corps. She helped him rehabilitate his defaulted loans.As a teenager on Long Island, Mr. Rodriguez did not focus on education, he recalled in an interview last month. His parents worked long hours at multiple jobs, including hotel, restaurant and factory work. “They tried their best with what they had,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “I know that now.”As a boy, he dreamed of playing professional football and idolized the quarterback Dan Marino. But Mr. Rodriguez was hit by a truck in junior high school, leaving him with a leg injury, and he hung up his jersey.To numb the pain of his injury and the loss of his athletic dreams, he began using drugs and alcohol. His struggle with addiction continued after he became a father at 18.“It was stressful,” he said. “I didn’t know how to be a parent. I wasn’t ready.”He and his daughter’s mother stayed together for several years, and Mr. Rodriguez tried to support his new family.“I took any job I could get: food industry, retail, any labor job,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “Because of my lack of education, it was tough.”He kept working low-wage jobs after his relationship unraveled, and he enrolled at Sullivan County Community College in 2005 to set an example for his daughter, as well as his nieces and nephews. He also began taking out loans.The effort fizzled, and he tried again in 2011, this time at Suffolk County Community College, pursuing a degree in human services and writing for the college paper’s sports section. He took on more loans and continued to work part-time.But he was unable to finish college as he wrestled with addiction and economic stress brought on a major depressive episode. He found himself with more than $30,000 in student debt and relied on Social Security disability payments related to his mental health. On and off over the following years, he would be found in default and unable to receive his full disability benefits.Last year brought a shift. Mr. Rodriguez was proud when his daughter graduated from college, which he called “one of the greatest moments” of his life, and she found a job in the public health field.He committed to receiving help from the Maryhaven Center of Hope rehabilitation center on Long Island, and he has been sober since March, after 15 years of stops and starts.“Keep God first, be honest with myself and never give up — those are the three principles I live by today,” he said. “My first goal always is staying clean. No. 1, nothing will be possible if you don’t stay clean.”Mr. Rodriguez has found a job that is meaningful to him: helping other men with addiction as a wellness coach at the nonprofit organization Reality House.“I started to believe in myself that there’s a better way,” Mr. Rodriguez said.While looking into potential resources to help improve his financial situation, he found support from Ms. Davis at Financial Coaching Corps.“Eddie was really motivated to tackle this issue,” she said. Part of her salary is paid for with support from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, of which Community Service Society is a beneficiary.Mr. Rodriguez is seven months into a 10-month payment plan that, once completed, will bring his loan out of default, improving his credit rating and restoring his eligibility to apply for federal financial aid.Mr. Rodriguez’s next goal is to finish his degree in human services; he hopes to start school again part-time by the end of 2019. This time, he’ll do it with better financial advice.“There are people out there that are willing to take their time to sit with you,” Mr. Rodriguez said.Donations to the Neediest Cases may be made online, or with a check or over the phone.Advertisement