AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill Cowan(If you don’t already get California Today by email, here’s  the sign-up.)Good Monday morning.Over the weekend, you may have missed the news that even after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families at the border, more than 200 children were taken from parents and other relatives, and that the state’s taxpayers will shoulder $1.8 million in legal costs from sexual harassment investigations in the California Legislature over the course of last year and January.But there will be plenty of time this week to think about weighty issues affecting our state. Instead, we thought it’d be nice to ease back with a visual walk-through of wildflowers.Recently, I wrote about how fires followed by heavy rains were likely to spur super blooms across Southern California this year, and how you can see some wildflowers for yourself.Casey Schreiner, the founder and editor of the website Modern Hiker, told me that the best way to see a peak wildflower bloom is to do your research and be flexible.For some of you, though, it might be tough to drop everything to go camping. And motels near parks may already be booked up.So last week, I visited Anza-Borrego Desert State Park with John Francis Peters, a San Diego-based photographer, in an effort to bring you the next best thing.After a stop at the Anza-Borrego Desert Natural History Association’s storefront in tiny Borrego Springs, where we got some advice about where to find the best blooms, we headed out to a short trail near the end of Di Giorgio Road.And while I’ve been on some great hikes before, I’d never experienced anything quite like it.Not only did the colors of the purple sand verbena, golden desert sunflowers and brown-eyed evening primrose roll down from the mountains like a stunning carpet, the air was also lush and fragrant.Over the course of the day, we came across hikers from Sweden and Canada.We also met Anjelica and Megan Sloan, who live in Seattle, as they headed back to the road with their almost-2-year-old daughter, Sawyer.Megan said she hadn’t seen a wildflower bloom since she was a kid.“We’ll see if she remembers,” she added with a smile, gesturing toward Sawyer, who was planted on the trail, examining the sand.Anjelica Sloan said that they hiked frequently in Washington, but that the desert was something else.“The contrast between the mountains and the shadows and the flowers is just remarkable,” she said.Cindy English, who brought her dog, Wilma, from San Diego, said she’d been heading to the desert to see wildflowers for decades. This year’s explosion, she said, has brought the “most diversity of flowers” that she’s seen.Are you persuaded to pack your bags? If you can get there before hordes of sphinx moth caterpillars eat the blossoms, the Theodore Payne Foundation’s weekly wildflower report can help you figure out where to go.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• House Democrats spent the week fighting about how much and when to police the speech of their colleagues. [The New York Times]• In the Senate, Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris are a study in contrasts. “Do you advance your politics in today’s day and age by being the most compelling and forceful, or do you do it by being the best able to find compromise solutions?” [The San Francisco Chronicle]• A U.S.C. music student, Victor McElhaney, was shot and killed in an apparent robbery off campus. He was a jazz studies major, the son of an Oakland councilwoman and an active member of the university’s Center for Black Cultural and Student Affairs. [The Los Angeles Times]• “I didn’t think he’d get his death sentence here.” A doctor on a video screen told a patient at a Fremont Kaiser Permanente hospital that he was near death. It left his relatives aghast and resurrected thorny debates about the pitfalls of telemedicine. [The New York Times]• Newspapers are contracting or closing at an alarming rate, leaving behind communities — like Fresno, where the paper has suffered cuts — whose government officials are more likely to spend wastefully, research shows. [The Associated Press]• A federal judge in Oakland paved the way for college football and basketball players to receive more compensation than they do now. But the ruling didn’t go as far as some proponents had hoped. [The New York Times]• Paris has the Eiffel Tower; St. Louis has the Gateway Arch. Now, San Jose — a.k.a. Silicon Valley — wants a monument to, well, Silicon Valley. [The New York Times]•  Salesforce’s 20th anniversary was Friday. Here’s a timeline showing how it went from zero to $13 billion, from a Telegraph Hill apartment to San Francisco’s tallest building. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• A viral illness knocked Serena Williams out of the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells. [The New York Times]• In her new film, “Gloria Bell,” set in a hazily lit L.A., Julianne Moore takes on a radical role: An ordinary, flawed 50-something woman navigating life. [The New York Times]California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement