AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnRachelle Lefevre plays the leader of a law firm specializing in reversing wrongful convictions in a new Fox legal drama. And a Jordan Peele-produced Amazon series revisits Lorena Bobbitt.PROVEN INNOCENT 9 p.m. on Fox. What’s more satisfying than watching justice doled out from the comfort of your couch? The latest legal drama to hit television hopes that the answer is this: watching injustices be reversed. That’s the premise of this new show, which stars Rachelle Lefevre as a lawyer who was once wrongfully convicted of murder and, after having her name cleared, became the leader of a law firm specializing in fighting wrongful sentences. Russell Hornsby plays her legal partner. Kelsey Grammer plays the rotten state’s attorney who put Lefevre’s character behind bars; he’s now her main adversary in the courtroom. The series was created by Danny Strong — one of the creators of “Empire” — and the screenwriter David Elliot.NBA ALL-STAR CELEBRITY GAME 7 p.m. on ESPN. Bojangles’ Coliseum in Charlotte, N.C., is the backdrop of this year’s NBA All-Star Celebrity Game, which pits a “home” team of names like the actor JB Smoove, the television personality Dr. Mehmet Oz and the rapper Rhapsody against an “away” team that includes the comedians Hasan Minhaj and Amanda Seales and the singer Bad Bunny. The rapper Quavo, a member of Migos and, less prominently, last year’s Celebrity Game M.V.P., will also play for the “away” team.LORENA Stream on Amazon. You probably know the story: in June 1993, Lorena Bobbitt cut off her husband’s penis with a kitchen knife. The next year, she was acquitted of criminal charges, but not before she had become a media sensation and the butt of scores of jokes, which often ignored evidence that she’d been a victim of domestic violence. Now, 25 years after her acquittal, she’s telling what happened on her own terms, in this new Jordan Peele-produced documentary series. “It’s like they all missed or didn’t care why I did what I did,” Bobbitt recently told The New York Times. “This is about a victim and a survivor,” she went on to say, “and this is about what’s happening in our world today.”THE NOTE: SHAPING THE SOUND OF NY Stream on Red Bull TV. Alexander Rosner survived the Holocaust and became a respected sound engineer in New York during the disco boom of the ’70s. He talks about his work in this short documentary, and about his latest gig: installing sound systems in churches.PERIOD. END OF SENTENCE. (2018) Stream on Netflix. Rayka Zehtabchi’s Oscar-nominated documentary short looks at the way a village in rural India is transformed by the installation of a sanitary-pad machine. Through that story, it delves into social attitudes regarding menstruation in India — a topic also notably explored in the Indian filmmaker R. Balki’s 2018 feature, “Padman,” which is also streaming on Netflix.Advertisement