AdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Marc TracyWhen Zion Williamson of Duke went down with a severed shoe and a sprained knee 30 seconds into Wednesday night’s showdown with North Carolina, it was bad news for plenty involved. Williamson now has to deal with an injury. Duke had to play its archrival without its best player and duly lost, 88-72. Nike faced questions about its product’s apparent failure.But ESPN, broadcasting the contest as part of its multibillion-dollar deal with the Atlantic Coast Conference, did just fine. The game’s biggest star was injured for nearly 99 percent of the game, yet on Thursday, the network reported that the rivalry had produced its highest-ever ratings for a weeknight college basketball game.The episode crystallized the economic limitations that N.C.A.A. amateurism and N.B.A. rules impose on Williamson, a preternatural talent, and the unique ways that they limit the income of a unique player.If the N.B.A. did not bar high schoolers from heading straight to the league — a rule that may disappear in a few years — then Williamson could already have been playing for, say, the Atlanta Hawks and making several million dollars on his rookie contract. If N.C.A.A. rules did not prevent players from signing endorsements, Williamson could already have been receiving millions from Nike.However, barring an outright catastrophe, Williamson, the likely top draft pick, will be getting paid, soon and well, and at a time when his economic productivity is even higher than it is today. His specialness, though, obscures what some suggest is the greatest injustice of college sports’ policy of amateurism.In contrast to Williamson and a few other superstars, most players in college basketball are denied the right to cash in during what is very likely their moment of peak economic value.“The top guys are worth a lot — on the order of millions a year,” said Daniel Rascher, a sports economist who has studied the economic value of college athletes. “But the seven, eight, nine guys,” he added, referring to the players further down the depth chart, “are going to be several hundred thousand a year in terms of the incremental revenue they bring to the school.”Take Duke’s Jordan Goldwire. He was a midrated recruit out of high school, and his options besides Duke included midmajor programs such as Eastern Kentucky, Coastal Carolina and Nevada-Las Vegas. He is probably not bound for N.B.A. riches. This season, he has not played at all in three A.C.C. games and has averaged fewer than seven minutes in those he has played in. He played eight minutes against the Tar Heels on Wednesday. But that actually made him an essential contributor to a two-hour broadcast worth a lot of money to Duke, the A.C.C. and ESPN.“If you look at the N.B.A., the guys who don’t play very much still get paid a lot,” Rascher said.Or forget about Duke and think of the players at whichever team makes the N.C.A.A. tournament out of the Big South or the Patriot League. Part of that billion-dollar event’s charm comes from the quirky matchups — and the potential for exciting upsets — when such teams face juggernauts like Duke and Kansas in the early rounds. Players on those teams, too, are producing a real financial return for the N.C.A.A., for its member colleges and for CBS and Turner Sports, even though their abilities will never be remotely so lucrative again. Yet they are prohibited from taking more than a relatively small, prescribed share of that value.Moreover, all of these players, too, are risking futures in professional basketball — more of them than you might think. While fewer than 5 percent of Division I men’s basketball players are drafted into the N.B.A., the N.C.A.A. said last year, around half go on to play pro basketball in some form, such as in foreign leagues. From teams in the five top conferences, the N.C.A.A. added, more than three-quarters of players go on to be paid to play.The college sports establishment’s common rebuttal to these lines of thinking is that not paying the players beyond scholarships and related costs is actually crucial to the popularity of their sports.Last year, in a federal lawsuit challenging the N.C.A.A.’s restrictions on compensation from an antitrust perspective, Mike Aresco, a former sports television executive who is now commissioner of the American Athletic Conference, testified that college players’ amateur status was a feature of their sports’ appeal, not a bug.“It resonated with fans because it wasn’t professionalized at all,” he said, according to a court transcript, while serving as a witness for several conferences and the N.C.A.A. itself. “And it was presented and framed as college students, as college sports.”Among other things, this distinction differentiated college basketball and college football from minor league sports, Aresco said. “And that was very important,” he added, “because minor leagues had never been popular.”He said: “People view college sports separately. And we always maintained that separation.”Rascher was a witness for the plaintiffs in that case, in which a decision is expected any day. His reply to arguments like Aresco’s was to point to the experiment of sorts that took place a few years ago, when the N.C.A.A. permitted colleges to offer athletes funds that included the so-called full cost of attendance. After players began to be “paid” slightly more than they had previously been, college sports’ popularity was not measurably affected.Williamson’s injury in the marquee game of the regular season, particularly so early in the contest, appeared to be a devastating blow to Duke, which entered as a 9-point favorite yet never led once. Being magnanimous, Roy Williams, North Carolina’s colorful coach, acknowledged as much afterward.“Be honest,” he said. “When the big fella goes out of the game, it changes a lot of stuff for them.”Judging from the final score, Williams was right. But be honest: If you looked only at the bottom line, you would not even know that the big fella was gone.Advertisement