AdvertisementSupported byBy Jan Ransom and Michael Gold[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Harvey Weinstein has started to cast his new “dream team” of lawyers to represent him against sexual assault charges in Manhattan, and two of them recently represented one of his most vocal accusers, the actress Rose McGowan.Mr. Weinstein, the movie mogul who became a symbol of the #MeToo movement after dozens of women accused him of sexual misconduct, has assembled a team including a former Manhattan prosecutor and three litigators with a history of representing celebrity clients, a person familiar with the discussions said.Two of the lawyers, Jose Baez and Ronald S. Sullivan Jr., also represented Ms. McGowan when she faced drug possession charges in Virginia. Ms. McGowan has been an outspoken critic of the movie producer and was one of the first women to come forward and accuse him of sexual misconduct. (She said Mr. Weinstein assaulted her in 1997, but charges were never filed.)Still, Mr. Sullivan said he and Mr. Baez did not believe that representing Mr. Weinstein after handling Ms. McGowan’s defense would pose an ethical issue because the cases are unrelated. “We are certain no conflict of interest exists,” he said.“Mr. Weinstein steadfastly maintains his innocence in this matter and we are looking forward to assisting Mr. Weinstein in his defense,” Mr. Sullivan said in a statement in which he confirmed that Mr. Weinstein had hired him and Mr. Baez.“This is an egregious conflict of interest,” Ms. McGowan told The Times in an email. “Baez is still listed as my attorney in the VA matter. Baez did nothing for my case and now I know why. A truly terrible human and a disgrace of a lawyer.”The other two lawyers who are joining Mr. Weinstein’s defense are Pamela Robillard Mackey, a Colorado defense lawyer, and Duncan Levin, a former New York prosecutor, the person with knowledge of the matter said.The four will replace Benjamin Brafman, the Manhattan defense lawyer with whom Mr. Weinstein parted ways last week. Mr. Brafman declined to comment.The New York Post first reported Mr. Weinstein’s new team.Mr. Baez and Mr. Sullivan will serve as Mr. Weinstein’s lead co-counsels, according to a second person with knowledge of the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations.It is possible that additional lawyers could be added to the team, the person said.Mr. Levin is a former federal prosecutor and a former senior assistant to the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr. He will provide strategic advice to the other three lawyers on the team, who have little experience with New York law or Mr. Vance’s office, the person said.While New York City is home to many skilled trial lawyers, including those well versed in handling complicated high-profile cases, Mr. Levin is the only one of the four lawyers Mr. Weinstein tapped to join his team who is based there.“We’re not that different from all others, but there are enough quirks in New York law that having a good local counsel is wisdom,” said Paul L. Shechtman, a longtime criminal defense lawyer in Manhattan.Mr. Weinstein began to make calls to other lawyers last month after a judge rejected Mr. Brafman’s argument that the case against Mr. Weinstein should be dismissed. Since then, he has pursued a plan to follow the template set out by O.J. Simpson in his murder trial in 1995, assembling a group with a variety of specialties.[Read more on Harvey Weinstein’s desire for a “dream team defense.”]With his new team, Mr. Weinstein has a set of lawyers with experience in high-profile cases.Mr. Baez, a lawyer based in Florida, represented Casey Anthony, who was acquitted in 2011 of charges that she murdered her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee.He also worked with Mr. Sullivan, a professor at Harvard Law School, to defend the football player Aaron Hernandez, who was acquitted in a double murder trial in Massachusetts in 2017 and later committed suicide. (Neither Mr. Baez nor Mr. Sullivan represented Mr. Hernandez in his murder trial in 2015, when he was found guilty in a conviction that was later nullified.)Bruce Green, a legal ethics expert at the Fordham University School of Law, said that Mr. Baez’s and Mr. Sullivan’s past representation of Ms. McGowan would only pose a conflict of interest if she were to be called as a witness in the case.By hiring Ms. Mackey, who works for a Denver-based law firm, Mr. Weinstein will add a prominent female lawyer to his legal team. Ms. Mackey also has experience in sexual assault cases. She represented the basketball player Kobe Bryant when he was accused of raping a 19-year-old woman in 2003 in Colorado.Mr. Bryant said at the time that he viewed their encounter as consensual, and the case was dropped after the woman said she would not testify.Ms. Mackey, who is out of the country, could not be reached immediately for comment.Mr. Weinstein, 66, faces five charges in Manhattan stemming from allegations that he raped one woman and performed oral sex on another against her will. The charges include two counts of predatory sexual assault, which carries a maximum sentence of life in prison. His trial is scheduled to begin in May.Mr. Weinstein has denied the allegations and has said the relationships were consensual.An earlier version of this article misstated the year Kobe Bryant was accused of rape. It was 2003, not 2013.Advertisement