AdvertisementSupported byWhat you GetAn 1885 estate in Montclair, a 1925 Mediterranean-style house in Tampa and a custom-built Craftsman in Spokane.By Julie Lasky24 PhotosView Slide Show ›Believed to have been based on a McKim, Mead and White design, this house was built as a summer estate that included much of the surrounding land. Today it sits on 0.6 acres in the Upper Montclair neighborhood, an easy walk to both Brookdale Park to the east and the train station (with direct service to Manhattan) and commercial district (with cafes and shopping) to the west.Size: 6,225 square feetPrice per square foot: $241Indoors: The house has a wide front porch whose roof is supported by columns probably milled from trees cleared from the property at the time it was built. In the foyer, with its coffered ceiling, are floors and moldings of tiger oak, a wood found throughout the first two levels of the house. To the left of the foyer is a parlor with a bay window. A pair of wooden Doric columns marks the entrance to the wide living room, which has a corner fireplace. From there, you enter a family room with decorative wood molding, a marble fireplace and a media center; this room overlooks a sunken, three-season solarium at the back of the home, originally built as a greenhouse.Straight ahead from the foyer is a dining room with a beamed ceiling. Following a short hallway past a powder room, you reach a kitchen with a granite-topped central island and a breakfast niche with three walls of windows. A butler’s pantry lined in cabinets connects the kitchen to the living room. A door within the pantry leads to a laundry room.Two staircases, front and back, ascend to the second floor, where there are four bedrooms and three bathrooms. The master suite has its own sitting room and fireplace, as well as three closets (one walk-in) and two bathrooms.On the third floor are three more bedrooms, two bathrooms and a cupola playroom. The basement has a rec room and a wine cellar that was originally the coal bin.Outdoor space: The front porch is flanked by gazebo-like seating areas, and in back of the house are an in-ground swimming pool and patio area. A porte-cochere with an elevated first step matched to the height of a carriage remains from the days of horses and buggies.Taxes: $42,687 (2018)Contact: Richard G. Stanton, Stanton Company, 917-536-8257; stantonrealtors.idxbroker.comKnown as the Herbert Draper house, after its first owner, a real estate developer, this property was one of the first large homes built on the elite Davis Islands in Hillsborough Bay. Situated on a 0.15-acre corner lot near the northern tip, it is convenient to Marjorie Park Yacht Basin and Tampa General Hospital. The Raymond James stadium, where the Tampa Bay Buccaneers play football, is across a channel on the mainland, 10 minutes away. The home is being sold with most of its furnishings.Size: 3,392 square feetPrice per square foot: $441Indoors: A nationally registered historic property, the house was thoroughly renovated and all of its systems upgraded in 2015; only the windows need to be improved. Features include a living room with hand-painted beams and a solid wood fireplace surround carved with swags and medallions; a library with two walls of Gothic arched windows and floor-to-ceiling bookcases with a rolling ladder; a formal dining room with a second monumental wood-burning fireplace; and a chef’s kitchen with Carrara marble countertops, multiple dishwashers and a tin ceiling.Upstairs are two master suites — one with an onyx-surfaced bathroom with a steam shower and bidet — and two guest rooms. Over the garage is a mother-in-law suite accessible from the main house’s second floor; it has a kitchenette and a bathroom with a walk-in shower with multiple shower heads.The house is equipped with a Sonos sound system and a full generator, and has a 600-bottle wine room. The two-car garage is air-conditioned and has a laundry room and a half bathroom that is convenient to the pool area.Outdoor space: A landscaped patio contains a pool and spa. The walkway that connects the main house to the garage and guest quarters creates a shaded porch area below and a pleasant seating area above. There are partial water views from the open space at the top of the bell tower.Taxes: $20,307 (2017)Contact: Michael Mundy, Eskimo Cat Real Estate, 813-679-2754; state27homes.comAfter buying the property, where a 1914 house in need of repair stood, and investigating the possibility of restoring it, the owners decided to raze it and start fresh. The new house, designed by Gerry Copeland, a Washington architect, retained the earlier home’s Craftsman style and incorporated some of its materials. The property is on the Spokane River, less than two miles west of the central business district of Spokane and about five minutes by car from Kendall Yards, a popular mixed-use development with artisanal shops and restaurants and a supermarket.Size: 5,740 square feetPrice per square foot: $253Indoors: The entrance foyer has rectangular wood ceiling beams, door moldings and stair spindles copied from the previous house. To the left is a study with built-in desks on two walls; to the right, a formal dining room. The entry leads past a staircase to a great room with a gas fireplace built from the original home’s stone. This room has an open kitchen with stainless-steel appliances, square wood cabinets topped with granite and two informal eating areas. The kitchen can also be reached from the attached garage, by way of a mudroom and laundry room.The main-level master bedroom has a gas fireplace, a walk-in closet and a bathroom with double sinks and a ceramic-tile stand-alone tub and shower. Two additional bedrooms and a bathroom are upstairs.A lower level contains two bedrooms, one bathroom and a family room with a wood stove.Outdoor space: The great room and master suite open to a wraparound balcony with river views, and the lower level walks out below it. The four-car garage is accessible from the front and back, and has extensive storage space. The 0.9-acre property includes garden beds, evergreens, flowering shrubs and 136 feet of river frontage.Taxes: $8,636Contact: Kathy Bixler, Coldwell Banker Tomlinson South, 509-879-4493; coldwellbanker.comFor weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.An earlier version of this story misstated the number of bedrooms on the third floor of the home in Montclair, N.J. There are three, not four.Advertisement