AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael M. GrynbaumMoments after President Trump concluded his Oval Office remarks on border security on Tuesday, the NBC anchor Chuck Todd came on air with a blunt assessment.“He made a lot of dubious claims,” Mr. Todd informed millions of viewers after the network’s scheduled program — a new episode of an Ellen DeGeneres-hosted game show — had been pre-empted for a rare prime-time presidential appearance.Shepard Smith, on the Fox network, told viewers that contrary to Mr. Trump’s assertions, “statistics show there is less violent crime by the undocumented immigrant population than by the general population.”And on ABC, the White House correspondent Cecilia Vega took issue with Mr. Trump’s depiction of a southern border in crisis. “Just because you say it’s a crisis,” Ms. Vega said, “doesn’t necessarily make it one.”The decision by major broadcast networks to carry Mr. Trump’s  address live set off a fierce debate over journalistic responsibility in an age of unusual mendacity in politics. Anchors responded by delivering a tough-minded assessment of his nine-minute remarks, reeling off several immediate correctives to some of his misleading claims.The president who appeared on Tuesday night was a far cry from his most famous prime-time incarnation, the gregarious host of “The Apprentice.” Less comfortable in formal settings, Mr. Trump struggled at times reading from his teleprompter, adopting a mostly flat affect.Granting a president airtime to address the nation is normally an easy decision for network executives. But Mr. Trump’s public statements have been marked by untruths and misleading claims, and liberals wondered why news outlets would defer to a president who on Monday labeled journalists “the Enemy of the People” and “crazed lunatics.”Eventually, ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox agreed to the White House’s request, forgoing their 9 p.m. entertainment shows — and millions of dollars in associated ad revenue — for the appearance. The networks also broadcast a response from the Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, and Chuck Schumer, the senator from New York.The decision was controversial and predictable at the same time.Executives at the major networks, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private discussions, cited the government shutdown — and the millions of Americans affected by it — as the primary reason for airing the president’s remarks. This was also Mr. Trump’s first formal request that the networks carry a prime-time address, a rarely used arrow in the presidential quiver.“When the president of the United States asks for time to make an address to the American public, I don’t think you can say no,” Ted Koppel, the longtime ABC anchorman, said in an interview. Any concern about misleading claims, he added, “is a judgment you can only make after you hear what he has to say.”Others argued that traditional ways of covering the president should not apply to the norm-breaking Mr. Trump. Former aides to President Barack Obama pointed out that his request for airtime in 2014 to discuss immigration reform was turned down by the networks, which called the subject overly political. One aide, Dan Pfeiffer, wrote on Twitter after Mr. Trump’s remarks on Tuesday night that “the Networks got played.”Still, producers at several networks cited the uncertainty surrounding the shutdown, and an impending suspension of federal paychecks, as inherently newsworthy.Executives were juggling a slew of concerns, some tied to public responsibility and others crassly commercial. Tuesday is a relatively slow night for prime time, so airing the president’s address would not pre-empt a ratings magnet like a National Football League game. Executives in New York are mindful of their national affiliates, many of which cater to red-state audiences that might be antagonized to discover their local station is declining to show Mr. Trump’s remarks.Even as the news landscape has fractured, the four major networks still have the biggest audience in mass media. Some journalists had questioned if a different approach was necessary.“There are so many sources of news now, but the networks’ policies haven’t changed very much,” Andrew Heyward, a former president of CBS News, said before the speech. “One very attractive option would be to promote the fact that it’s live with a crawl, and then if it turns out to be newsworthy, you can do a special report. You then pull selected sound from it and give it context, as opposed to having to get trapped in something and having to react to it.”For those who sought counterprogramming on Tuesday, one former Trump associate offered an alternative.“If you’re looking for anything even remotely worth watching tonight at 9pm EST, I will be folding laundry in my underwear for 8 minutes on Instagram live,” Stormy Daniels, the adult film actress who has claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump, wrote on Twitter. She followed through on her promise in a streaming video featuring the sounds of Pink Floyd’s “Another Brick in the Wall.”As for Mr. Trump, his preparations for prime time went beyond the usual speechwriting.At a White House lunch with television anchors on Tuesday, the president was in a cheery, chatty mood. But according to two people in the room, he frowned when a hefty slice of chocolate cake arrived for dessert.“That’s going to look good on me tonight,” Mr. Trump joked, declining to partake.Advertisement