AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Marc TracyINDIANAPOLIS — First it was Kyler Murray’s height. Then it was Kyler Murray’s weight. And then, after Kyler Murray’s weight, it was Kyler Murray’s hand size.By Friday, when Murray appeared before the news media, the chatter at the weeklong N.F.L. combine — an annual predraft meat market that makes little pretense of being anything subtler — had been dominated by discussions of his physical qualifications (or lack thereof). Does he, the Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback for Oklahoma who is preparing for April’s draft, really have what is needed to succeed as a pro?Gil Brandt, the former Dallas Cowboys personnel chief, could not remember more buzz around a draft prospect.“This is the most in history,” Brandt said, “and I’ve been doing this since 1977.”A number of factors have contributed to the Kyler craze.Three months ago, he and Scott Boras, the most powerful of baseball agents, told anyone who asked that Murray planned to finish his sole season as the Sooners’ starting quarterback and then report to spring training with the Oakland Athletics, who picked him ninth over all in last year’s Major League Baseball draft and agreed to pay him a $4.66 million signing bonus.Instead, after acquitting himself admirably in a national playoff semifinal loss to Alabama, Murray announced that his focus would remain on football after all. He effectively spurned the A’s and their money in favor of pursuing his gridiron dreams, even though as quarterbacks go, he is, charitably speaking, not tall.Murray did not know what N.F.L. teams thought of him until he completed his productive 2018 season, he told several dozen journalists on Friday as they gathered in a corner of the mammoth Indianapolis Convention Center. “The N.F.L. kind of heated up,” he said, “and here we are.”Recently, there have been a couple of successful quarterbacks who stand south of six feet tall. But just how short (or tall) is Murray? Clearly the neutral arbiter that is the N.F.L. combine would figure this out. That is what happens here.And his hands: Are they big enough? Is his palm of requisite heft to support a regulation football, his fingers sufficiently long to curl around the ball’s pebbled leather? (As is often the case when the topic is men and sports, there is subtext, and size matters.)Murray was measured Thursday, and the white smoke from the sacred space soon emitted good news: He is small, but not too small.Height: 5 feet 10⅛ inches. (As they always say, football is a game of eighths of an inch.)Weight: 207 pounds. He was closer to 195 while playing for Oklahoma last season, he said.Hand size: nine and one-half inches, from the pinkie’s tip to the thumb’s. Which is, apparently, ordinary for a quarterback.“I showed up, they told me to put my hand down, told me to stand here, step on the scale, and that’s what I did,” Murray said Friday. “And everybody made a big deal about it.”In fairness, this is a big deal — as big in its way, you might say, as the 10.88-inch hands of Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott. In proving his physical adequacy, Murray held out the chance of becoming that most valuable of sports commodities, a franchise quarterback.And yet the prototypical quarterback is bigger than Murray, the better to see and throw over his hulking offensive linemen and the equally hulking linemen on the other team. At combines past, for example, Tom Brady was measured at 6-4, Cam Newton at 6-5, Patrick Mahomes at over 6-2.Drew Brees and Russell Wilson are two current franchise quarterbacks closer to Murray’s stature. Murray has talked with Wilson, another standout baseball player, a couple of times.“Good to have him in my corner,” Murray said. “Obviously, I look up to him.” (Literally. During his combine, Wilson was measured at 5-10⅝.)Also close to Murray and Wilson is Baker Mayfield, who was measured at 6-1 during last year’s combine. Murray backed up Mayfield at Oklahoma for the 2017 season, when Mayfield won the Heisman, after which the Cleveland Browns drafted him first over all.There is a tantalizing subplot to the question of whether Murray will follow Mayfield as the top pick. The Arizona Cardinals hold the No. 1 slot, but they selected a quarterback, Josh Rosen, early in the first round last year.However, they have since changed head coaches, and the new top man, Kliff Kingsbury, both played quarterback and coached in the Air Raid system — the offensive scheme in which Murray thrived at Oklahoma, and that Mahomes, a former Kingsbury protégé, proved transferable to the N.F.L. during his outstanding 2018 season with the Kansas City Chiefs.Has Murray met with the Cardinals? Yes, he said Friday, he has.Murray clarified a few other things as well, patiently addressing the scrum of reporters, his average-size hands at his sides.Yes, football is his final answer.“I was born a football player,” he said. “I love this game. There is no turning back.”No, he is not concerned that in choosing football over baseball, he doomed himself to a smaller paycheck. A reporter brought up the 13-year, $330 million contract that was reached on Thursday between the Philadelphia Phillies and Bryce Harper. How much is that per year, Murray wished to know. About $25.4 million.“There’s quarterbacks making more than him a year,” Murray said, and indeed there are.And, no, he does not fear that his choice will mean a greater likelihood of injury. “You can’t play this game scared,” he said.Teams that wish to evaluate him further will have to wait a little longer. The group of players with whom Murray has proceeded through the combine will do on-field drills Saturday at Lucas Oil Stadium, but Murray will not join them. Instead, he will throw and run for scouts on March 13 back on campus at Oklahoma.“The population of Norman will grow about 300 people,” Brandt said. “Every coach and general manager will be there.”Advertisement