AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben RothenbergMELBOURNE, Australia — With the end in sight, the capacity crowd inside Melbourne Arena rose to its feet. Andy Murray soaked in their ovation, and their emotions, and then began to let his out.As his first-round match at the Australian Open reached the four-hour mark Monday evening, Murray was trailing his Spanish opponent, Roberto Bautista Agut, by 1-5 in the fifth. His time, he knew, was almost up.Murray had battled valiantly to force that final set, coming back after losing the first two to level the match. He even had looked — briefly — as if he might take command of the fifth set as well before Bautista Agut reeled off five straight games, putting a comeback well out of Murray’s reach.So when the crowd rose to salute him, Murray, tears visible in his eyes, raised his right arm to acknowledge the applause, seeming to accept the fond farewell and his fate. But he was not quite done: He saved one match point and held serve, delaying the inevitable by one game, buying himself a fragment of time.Bautista Agut, the No. 22 seed, served out his victory one game later, closing out a 6-4, 6-4, 6-7 (5), 6-7 (4), 6-2 result after 4 hours 9 minutes.It was the longest match of the first day of the Australian Open, and a fine representation of a dogged career that may be ending soon.Murray, a three-time Grand Slam champion whose ranking has slipped to 229th, has been slowed by a hip injury for more than a year. He said in his pretournament news conference on Friday that he had set Wimbledon this year as his “end point,” and that he could not rule out that this tournament might be his last.“If this was my last match, an amazing way to end,” Murray said in an on-court interview. “I gave literally everything I had.”Murray had made the match more competitive than many expected; while he has been hobbled, Bautista Agut won an ATP tournament in Doha, Qatar, eight days ago. Though his movement was visibly encumbered at times, Murray maintained many of his other gifts, and fought his way through several long rallies with his signature drop shots, giving a crowd that included his mother, Judy, and brother, Jamie, plenty to cheer.“Today I knew it was potentially the last match I play; I don’t care if I damage my hip anymore in the match,” Murray said, “so it’s a bit easier to deal with the pain because I know that I don’t have to hit balls tomorrow.”By the time Murray had joined his former coach Mark Petchey for an on-court interview, his raw emotions seemed to have settled, which almost seemed to catch him off guard.“Actually,” he said, “I think I’m going to be all right.”Despite the finality of his remarks on Friday, and despite the eulogies for his career that had been shared in the days since — including a tribute video from other top players that played as he stood on the court Monday night — Murray left the door open to a return.“I don’t know — maybe I’ll see you again,” he said, drawing cheers from the crowd. “I’ll do everything possible to try. If I want to go again, I’ll need to have a big operation, which there’s no guarantees I’ll be able to come back from anyway. But I’ll give it my best shot.”Murray was referring to a hip resurfacing operation like the one that the doubles player Bob Bryan underwent last year; Bryan is trying to come back this season. In his postmatch news conference, Murray said that he would decide soon between struggling through months of further pain without surgery in order to play Wimbledon as a last hurrah, or to have the surgery with an eye on continuing his career after rehabilitation.Murray said he thought he would make his decision “in the next week or so.”“If I go ahead with the operation and I don’t recover well from it, then I don’t play again — I’m aware of that,” he said. “That is the decision that I have to make. It will improve my quality of life; I’ll be in less pain doing just normal things like walking around and putting your shoes and socks on and things. Just now, going to walk my dogs, playing football with my friends, is like the worst thing I can think of doing. Like, I hate it, because it’s so sore and it’s uncomfortable.”Those cold realities probably will sink in for Murray soon after he leaves Melbourne. But he said he would be O.K. if Monday’s loss was his final match.“If today was my last match, look: it was a brilliant way to finish,” he said. “That’s something that I’ll probably take into consideration, as well. It was an amazing atmosphere. I literally gave everything that I had on the court, fought as best as I could, and performed a lot better than what I should have done without the amount I’ve been able to practice and train.”Murray is known for his indefatigable work ethic, so settling for the less painful option has never been his strong suit.“It’s also been a flaw of mine,” he said. “Some people might say, ‘It’s a positive thing that Andy worked really, really hard, such and such, trained hard.’ But I also often didn’t stop myself when I was being told to do things. I should have sometimes said, ‘No, I’m not doing that today.’ Or: ‘No, I don’t want to train today. I’m sore, I need a day off.’ I didn’t do that. I would always kind of just go along with what I was being told. That was a mistake.”Advertisement