AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNSam Trabucco gives us a weekend workout.By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I’ll get to the clues quickly today because I thought there were so many sticklers, but this puzzle was very twinny, or crossy, for me — lots of paired entries. Some of them had something in common, some were nigh impossible to complete, some combined to aid me greatly, but this facet was one of the takeaways for me today.As always, I loved Sam Trabucco’s style and got a kick out of his cluing and most of today’s nine debuts. (The meh ones were I COULDN’T and HOME CARE, not that there’s anything wrong with either one, they just weren’t remarkable. Certainly not a constructor’s fault.)The first clues that delighted me were VILA and VANILLI, which I would call a personal reverse Natick, since I was able to ink them in with total confidence. I misremembered Bob Vila as a character on a sitcom, “Home Improvement,” not an educational show, “Home Again,” but I’m still a little afraid to get on a ladder — no D.I.Y. expert here. I also misremembered the whole Milli Vanilli story, which turned very tragic, but their music is very embedded in my mind with my college experience, so any mention makes me pleasantly nostalgic (this is only the second time we’ve seen VANILLI, and it’s been more than 20 years). My college memories are free of PEP BANDS, by the way, which was also a debut. After picking through much of the upper right, my letters spread south and west, petering out at the lower left corner, which stumped me most. There was tough stuff, though, throughout this whole grid.A couple of misdirections I was fond of were clues for ESP and GLAND, and there were fun clues galore. ARIE, clued as such, made me grimace for a second, but I didn’t dwell on it.13A: I thought “overrode” had to be the thing here, for “Domineered,” and rolled my eyes a little at OVERBORE, which doesn’t strike me as a word. Wrong! It has even been in the puzzle before, multiple times. I was not overbored by this grid today, Mr. Trabucco, I feel you went quite overboard to amuse us. 15A: I am pre-nostalgic for the group in question here, the modern and still-existent GORILLAZ. This is one of those very insidery double clues, by the way; one of the founders of GORILLAZ is Damon Albarn, who is also in Blur, one of the bands mentioned in the crossing clue at 4D. I actually knew this, but I didn’t think of him as a poster child for BRITPOP (even though he is, as I learned once I consulted the world); I also had always assumed that GORILLAZ was a hipster misspelling of “guerrillas,” not anything to do with the Monkees. So there’s another bit of critical life information we’ve acquired today. I had never actually seen the humans behind the band in question, because they are often represented by cartoon characters, even when I’ve seen videos of them performing live.16A: Right after a 21st-century pop music reference, bam! An abstruse compendium of world literary figures like Jeppe Aakjaer, a novelist who “was intensely concerned with social misery and the need for reform.” BENET’S Reader’s Encyclopedia was first edited, in 1948, by William Rose Benét, older brother of Stephen Vincent. There was an edition in 2008; there may be one in the works right now.44A: In a rebuttal to the old “Plus ça change” argument, some aficionados among you may find it bemusing that this word, LICTORS, and its singular variant, were considered entries for early in the week, including a Monday puzzle back in 1954 (clued as “Fasces bearer in ancient Rome”). I was inordinately stumped by this entry and hit a dead end at its crossing with 45D, too, as I knew nothing of California’s Fort ORD. That little filler word is usually clued as an airport. 7D: It felt as if the four 12-letter entries in this puzzle split into pairs, with this one, the punnily clued DRAMA COACHES, crossing IM SPEECHLESS.8D, which referenced the top entry on a Sports Illustrated list that I had certainly heard about but never examined, was one half of the other pair of 12-letter entries. The entry here is MIRACLE ON ICE — the unlikely 1980 Olympic hockey victory that was all rife with Cold War gravitas and rah rah United States patriotism. I’m just not familiar, except that I worked with one of the Times reporters who covered it, the perspicacious Craig Whitney, and he was still telling pretty riveting stories 25 years later in the newsroom. (It looks as if he took some part in a documentary, in case this event is also your No. 1 and you want more, more, more.)As far as 27A, the 12-letter entry crossing the above, this idiom made me think of my No. 1 “moment in sports history,” which was at 13 on the Sports Illustrated list. Can a horse PUT ON A CLINIC? It’s not like we could ask any of the rivals he left far, far behind in the dust; they would just shake their heads and murmur “neigh.” Is it silly that I get a little teary whenever I see Secretariat looking as if he could have soared 10 more miles with a sack of potatoes on his back?It took me forever to get the middle of this grid to work, to the point where I’m thrilled with how it turned out (ARIE and EERO notwithstanding). Often with this sort of design, though, you get the middle to work and then find that one of the corners won’t cooperate — I was happy to skate by here, though I’m not exactly in love with the SW (it’s certainly less colorful than I’d hope for, and LICTORS is a bit of a deep cut).I’m not one to include a ton of sports stuff in a crossword, so consider this grid with its skiing, hockey, football and ESPN references to be an anomaly. Sports are more my dad’s speed, so it’s a fun coincidence that it’s his birthday today! Happy birthday! I hope this crossword puzzle makes up for all the sports I quit during elementary school.Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?Advertisement