AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonATLANTA — Most teams that win championships enjoy a honeymoon. There are parades and victory laps and time to prepare for a title defense.Not so with Atlanta United, which won its first M.L.S. Cup on Dec. 8 and, because of Major League Soccer roster rules, had to spend the next day releasing some of the players who led it to the title. In fact, from almost the moment the final whistle blew in Atlanta United’s 2-0 victory over the Portland Timbers, the club president, Darren Eales, has had to grapple with a host of changes, including finding a new coach, selling one of his team’s best players and juggling the remaking of a star-studded roster.At times, the off-season has seemed comically short. Atlanta United reconvened as a team and opened its preseason training camp in mid-January, then flew to California before the Super Bowl to prepare for a preseason friendly against Club Tijuana. Last week, Atlanta United lost to Costa Rica’s Herediano, 3-1, in the first stage of the Concacaf Champions League (the teams meet again in Atlanta on Thursday night), and on Sunday it opens its M.L.S. season against D.C. United in Washington.All of this meant Eales had to get his off-season work done quickly, and he has not wasted any time. On Jan. 14, Atlanta United introduced Frank de Boer, the former manager of Ajax, Inter Milan and Crystal Palace, as the replacement for Atlanta’s former coach, Tata Martino, who took over Mexico’s national team. Then Eales signed Josef Martínez, the league’s most valuable player last season, to a five-year contract extension. Soon after, Pity Martínez, a 25-year-old Argentine midfielder, was signed; that move allowed Eales to sell Atlanta’s playmaker, Miguel Almirón, to England’s Newcastle United for a reported $23 million, smashing the M.L.S. transfer record.Two days before the Super Bowl, the hyperkinetic Eales sat down at his favorite Atlanta coffee shop — appropriately named Octane — to discuss the team’s dizzying off-season, its sale of Almirón and whether, in fact, other teams in M.L.S. can copy the Atlanta model.You knew you were going to have a lot of holes to fill in the off-season. What was the process?When we went out and built the club, our intention was to be clear with the fans from the very start. We were going to attract players who were young, or going toward the prime of their career, rather than a last contract or a last hurrah for a player from Europe. The idea here is, we’re part of this global network of soccer clubs. Miggy came to us, he had two fantastic years, won the M.L.S. Cup in the second season, had tremendous success on the pitch, and then he got a chance to fulfill his dream to go to the Premier League and play for a club there. So obviously, it was good for him, good for the league, because now the league can say, ‘We have a mechanism for you to showcase yourself, so come to M.L.S., play in a short window, and when the right moment comes, you can move to a top league in Europe.’ That was the dream we sold, and we had to at least prove the concept because otherwise it was going to be difficult for us to recruit other players if we didn’t do that.This business model is routine elsewhere, but it’s still new to M.L.S. Wasn’t it hard to see Almirón go?Miggy delivered everything we could have expected, and we won an M.L.S. Cup. On top of that, we didn’t spend dead money on a player at the end of his contract and get nothing in return. We actually got well in excess of what we had spent on the player in the first place. So it makes good business sense, good sporting sense, and that was always the vision.You signed Josef Martínez to a contract extension, then acquired Pity Martínez, before you sold Almirón. Was that sequencing deliberate?We’re really pleased that we did the whole succession plan in reverse. We got our player in [Martínez] before we moved the player on to Europe [Almirón]. Hypothetically, if we first sold a player for $30 million and went out to buy a player, everyone’s going to quote us $30 million. It’s the nature of the beast. So to secure our replacement in advance with a number we were comfortable with, it gave us a little more carte blanche.You also had to replace Tata Martino, whose reputation was instrumental in attracting young players to Atlanta for the first year.When we sat there after winning the Cup, we knew the coach was going. The reality is, it’s no different than Nick Saban, who has said how he loses his coordinators every year but he doesn’t mind because he knows the replacements come in and work hard because they have a chance to move on. We can embrace that as a club. When coaches want to come to Atlanta, they can see that as well. Frank de Boer coached at Ajax, at Inter and Crystal Palace. For me, I’m really excited because certain coaches fit players. With Ajax, he had great success. He went into situations [at Inter and Crystal Palace] that weren’t good fits. But he was the right fit for us.A lot has had to go right: Not just the success on the field, but an owner with deep pockets, a new stadium, enthusiastic fans. You have all of that.Everyone’s been asking when soccer is going to succeed in America, but if you watched the Cup final, with 73,000 passionate fans who were tailgating all afternoon, with an exciting style of play, it really has happened in America already. It’s great for me because yes, I wanted to make Atlanta United a real success story. But we’re also part of the bigger story, which is growing the game of soccer in America, being the pioneers to hopefully one day make it one of the top leagues in the world.Can other M.L.S. teams replicate what you’ve done?I’m not sure about replicating, but like every other business, you look at what other businesses are doing successfully and try to take those things that might work. I’m a fan of how L.A.F.C. came into the league. You saw the way they filled out their roster; there were similarities. I wouldn’t say they were copying us, but there were similarities. That’s a good thing. We were in a strange situation as pioneers trying to grow the league. There will be more teams looking, when they think of their out-of-pocket expenditures, money above the cap, not just the salaries — there’s much more awareness around investing more than we would have in a transfer fee for a younger player because we might have a chance to make a profit, or make our investment back. That’s going to open up an avenue for a few more clubs.With all this activity, did you get a chance to take any time off this winter?My aim is to get to March, the international break. I promised the wife and family I’ll take a week off, and football won’t be mentioned. I’m hoping to get to the end of March and then I’ll crash.Advertisement