AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump’s national address lasted just nine minutes. Watch it here.Mr. Trump argued that there is a crisis on the southern border that must be addressed before the government shutdown — now the second longest — can end. He was at times misleading. Here’s what he said and how it stacks up against the facts.Here is the response from the Democratic Party leaders, Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer._____2. It’s payday for federal workers. There’s only one problem: There’s no paycheck.The bank account of a single mother who works for the Census Bureau has dipped to negative $169. A federal corrections officer took a side job driving for Uber to make his mortgage payment. And a wildland firefighter sold his truck to pay next month’s bills.We talked to federal workers across the country who are furloughed because of the government shutdown and are wondering how long they can survive without pay._____3. Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign manager, discussed internal polling data from the 2016 race with a man tied to Russian intelligence, prosecutors alleged.The accusations came to light in a document filed by Mr. Manafort’s lawyers that was supposed to be partly blacked out — but contained a formatting error. Above, Mr. Manafort after a court appearance last year.Prosecutors for the special counsel Robert Mueller broke off a plea agreement with Mr. Manafort in November, accusing him of repeatedly lying to them. The details of their accusations have been largely kept secret until now.Separately, Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in Trump Tower during the 2016 campaign, was charged in a separate case showing her Kremlin ties. Prosecutors said she helped draft Russia’s “intentionally misleading” response in a fraud case._____4. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey refused to meet with John Bolton, the White House national security adviser, after he said Turkey must agree to protect Syria’s Kurds.The snub came a day after Mr. Erdogan commended President Trump’s decision to pull out of Syria. It makes an agreement between the two allies that much more difficult ahead of an announced U.S. withdrawal from Syria. Above, Mr. Bolton, left, with a Turkish government spokesman.For his part, Mr. Bolton has been walking a tricky line on the withdrawal plans. He walked back Mr. Trump’s promises for a speedy removal of 2,000 troops — but he was also at least partly responsible for the conditions that led to that sudden move in the first place._____5. U.S. carbon dioxide output rose by 3.4 percent in 2018, the biggest increase in eight years, according to a preliminary estimate by a private research group.The uptick came even as a near-record number of coal plants across the country closed last year. Some of that increase was weather related, but another big reason for the change was the growing economy: Emissions from factories, planes and trucks soared.The report illustrates how difficult it could be for the country to make further progress on climate change, particularly as the Trump administration pushes to roll back federal regulations that limit greenhouse gas emissions._____6. Sears will remain open — at least for now.The retailer reached an 11th-hour deal pushing off the threat of liquidation. The company’s chairman now has an opportunity to sweeten his $4.4 billion offer to buy Sears and keep its 400 stores open.Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager, is now expected to bid for the company at a court-supervised auction next week. Already the company’s largest stockholder, he’s the only bidder seeking to maintain Sears as a “going concern.”The company’s largest creditors will ultimately decide whether they would recover more money by allowing Mr. Lampert to keep the company or sell it off piecemeal._____7. New York City plans to spend at least $100 million to ensure that undocumented immigrants and low-income residents can receive medical treatment.Mayor Bill de Blasio, above, said that the new plan would improve coverage for 516,000 people and aim to reach more of those who are eligible for health insurance but haven’t applied for it.The announcement was Mr. de Blasio’s latest jump into the national debates over immigration and health care, and builds on earlier efforts to position himself as a bulwark against the policies of President Trump._____8. Clemson defeated Alabama for the college football championship Monday night using some big plays.But the team’s performance had its roots in a gutsy decision Coach Dabo Swinney made back in September.Mr. Swinney substituted a freshman quarterback for a proven starter at a key moment. That decision made everything, our columnist writes._____9. “We canned a feeling.”Ease, comfort and pleasure are what millennials really want — and capitalism is into it.A new beverage called Recess is a case study in where those desires meet. Bubbles? Yes. CBD? Check. Sans-serif block font? Yeah! A knowing, nudging, creepily on-point Instagram presence? Obviously.Our writer, herself no stranger to millennial nu-irony, explains why the sparkling water infused with hemp extract is flying off the shelves at $29.99 for a six-pack._____10. Finally, here’s a look at a high-stakes science project.Scientists wanted to better understand the explosive reaction between water and lava, but doing experiments in active volcanoes is no picnic. So a group of researchers decided to brew up their own backyard lava.“We are not just crazy people mixing and seeing what happens,” a volcanologist said. “We are scientists and we want to quantify, and we do have an idea of what we are doing here.”Have a spectacular evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement