AdvertisementSupported byIf they’re not held accountable at school, what’s to stop them from becoming the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story once they enter the work force? By Alyssa LeaderMs. Leader is a law student and activist.As a student at Harvard, I reported a sexual assault by a classmate to the university. After a six-month investigation that ended after I graduated, I received a decision from the administrative board. The board voted to “scratch,” a term defined in the administrative board’s handbook. “Nothing wrong occurred,” it reads. “There are no grounds for action.”College students who endure sexual assault and sexual harassment have long been frustrated by anemic responses from their schools, which too often echo that message: “Nothing wrong occurred.” A new rule that Education Secretary Betsy DeVos has proposed — and which the public can comment on through Wednesday —  would make a bad situation even worse by all but demolishing the obligation of schools under Title IX to protect students who experience sexual harassment, including sexual assault. As the #MeToo movement continues to empower survivors of assault and harassment in various professions to speak out, we should worry not only about the effects of this proposed change on campuses, but also about the related price women will pay after graduation. I fear — and research suggests — that the campus predators whom schools fail to hold accountable today may go on to become the abusive bosses of tomorrow.[The Opinion section is now on Instagram. Follow us at @nytopinion.]I have cautiously hoped that the accountability the #MeToo movement has brought to the workplace would trickle into university life. But instead, at the very time people like Harvey Weinstein and R. Kelly have begun to face consequences for their behavior, Ms. DeVos is pushing to roll back the Title IX guidance that assaulted and harassed students depend on to seek justice. Among other changes, her proposed rule would require schools to dismiss all incidents that do not meet an extremely narrow definition of sexual harassment: “so severe, pervasive and objectively offensive that it effectively denies a person equal access” to education. As Dana Bolger, a co-founder of Know Your IX, a national youth-led campaign against sexual violence, has pointed out, some courts have ruled that a rape does not meet this standard. The rule would essentially eliminate schools’ responsibility to respond to incidents off campus, which make up 95 percent of sexual assaults of female students, according to the Department of Justice. Moreover, schools would not be legally responsible for addressing any sexual harassment that is not reported to a school official designated to deal with that issue. The overall effect of the proposed rule — which supporters say would restore due-process rights to those accused of sexual assault and harassment — would be to make reporting, already an uphill battle for raped and harassed students, feel even more futile. Carly Mee, who represents survivors of school sexual violence as a senior staff lawyer at SurvJustice, told me, “It is completely illogical that at a time when the public is finally coming to terms with the reality of how prevalent sexual violence is thanks to initiatives like Tarana Burke’s #MeToo movement, the DeVos administration is simultaneously attempting to weaken Title IX protections for survivors.”It’s safe to assume that most perpetrators of sexual violence who have come to public notice through #MeToo didn’t suddenly become abusers after landing jobs in newsrooms and board rooms and on movie sets. Their idea that one can abuse with impunity is learned, and in many cases it is learned where most things are learned — at school. Violent sexual behavior that goes unchecked during college does not reach a natural end at graduation. In fact, many perpetrators of sexual violence are serial offenders: Of men who acknowledge using sexually violent or coercive behaviors, around one in five report committing repeat assaults. Another study found that men reporting a history of sexually aggressive behavior commit, on average, more than six sexual assaults. Examples of school perpetrators who skirted accountability and then offended after graduation are already emerging. Jameis Winston, who was accused of rape as a student at Florida State University and is now a professional football player, reached a settlement with an Uber driver who said he sexually assaulted her in her car in 2016.But the path from perpetrator of school sexual violence to workplace abuser need not be inevitable. Interventions including cognitive behavioral therapy have proved to be highly effective in preventing perpetrators from reoffending. Far from being unfair, responding seriously to perpetrators of school sexual violence is tough kindness. As the world grows increasingly intolerant of violent sexual behavior, early intervention and clear messages about appropriate behavior can prevent perpetrators from reoffending and facing more long-term career, legal and personal consequences.But the first step in effectively intervening must be more, not less, accountability. Ms. Mee suggests that Ms. DeVos should begin by devising policies responsive to school survivors’ needs. “The public conversations going on right now need to translate into action,” Ms. Mee told me. “Those in power have a responsibility to listen to the stories being told and use this momentum to improve the system through which survivors seek justice, not weaken them even further.” If they don’t, they risk emboldening perpetrators who offended in early in life to continue abusing the women in the workplace. I took the unusual step of suing Harvard for its handling of my case and was unsuccessful. The judge dismissed the Title IX claim because of her determination that the university was not “deliberately indifferent.” But as I’ve learned as a student activist, I’m far from alone in my experience of seeing a man accused of sexual assault assured by a college that his actions were not out of bounds — and wondering what that means for the women who will encounter him in the future. While I obtained a restraining order against the man who assaulted me in college, he graduated and got a coveted job, where he’ll only have more and more power as time goes on. While I hope he’ll never become the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story, I am not optimistic. The proposed rules make it even more likely that men like him will leave their college campuses and enter the work force believing they can abuse women and be assured “Nothing wrong occurred.”Alyssa Leader is a second-year law student at the University of North Carolina.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement