AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel E. SlotnikWarren Wells, a former wide receiver who became one of the most feared deep threats of the vaunted Oakland Raiders of the late 1960s, but whose career ended after he served a season-long prison sentence, died on Thursday at a hospital in Beaumont, Tex. He was 76.His death, after a heart attack, was confirmed by his son, Gary Stewart.Wells joined the Raiders in 1967, during the waning years of the American Football League, when the team was a perennial playoff contender. Under Coach John Rauch and later John Madden, and with Daryle Lamonica and occasionally George Blanda at quarterback, the team was known for its long-bomb offense.Wells, who stood 6 feet 1 inch and weighed a little under 200 pounds, was a cornerstone of that offense, with soft hands, slick moves and breakaway speed. His presence on the field also helped free up other talented receivers, like the Hall of Famer Fred Biletnikoff.“It was fantastic to watch him play,” Biletnikoff was quoted as saying in a memorial to Wells on the Raiders’ website. “He has speed, he could run routes, he was so smooth, he could get on top of defensive backs so quick.”Wells helped the Raiders reach three straight A.F.L. title games, from 1967 through 1969, and the first American Football Conference championship game after the A.F.L. merged with the National Football League in 1970.During Wells’s four seasons with Oakland, he caught 156 passes for 3,634 yards and 42 touchdowns and was twice chosen for the Pro Bowl. His best season was 1969, when he led the A.F.L. in receiving yards (1,260), touchdowns (14) and yards per catch (an astonishing 26.8).Wells had numerous highlight-reel plays. One came when the Raiders were down by 6 points with seconds left in a game against the Jets in December 1970. Lamonica threw 33 yards to Wells, who was surrounded by three Jets defenders in the end zone. One defender tipped the ball, and Wells snagged it for a touchdown. The Raiders won, 14-13, after Blanda kicked the extra point with one second on the clock.But Wells’s success on the field became overshadowed by his problems off it. He was charged in a sexual assault case, pleaded guilty to aggravated assault and was placed on probation in 1969.After the 1970 season, he got into a fracas at a bar in Beaumont that violated his probation. He missed the 1971 season while serving a prison term for the probation violation, and though he tried to return in 1972, he was no longer in playing shape.“Warren just isn’t ready to play professional football at this time,” Madden, the Raiders’ coach, told reporters.Over the next few years, Wells was charged with drunken driving and disturbing the peace. He never played another professional game.Wells was born on Nov. 14, 1942, in Franklin, La., to Julia and Henry Wells and grew up in Beaumont. His mother was a domestic worker and his father was a mechanic. He went to Hebert High School in Beaumont and attended Texas Southern University before being picked by the Detroit Lions in the 12th round of the 1964 N.F.L. draft.Wells played in nine games for the Lions in 1964 and, after the season ended, was drafted into the Army. He spent two years serving in Alaska and joined the Raiders after his tour.In addition to his son, Gary, he is survived by a sister, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.Wells dealt with dementia and alcoholism for years after his professional career and was cared for by his son and other family members, including Wells’s sister-in-law, Consetta Wells; a nephew, Wyron Wells; and a niece, Raquel Wells-Joseph.Gary Wells said that his father finally gave up alcohol for good years ago. Wyron Wells said that Wells’s brain was being checked for signs of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease found in a number of former football players.In 1999 Wells told The Associated Press that he had to “look toward the future and quit looking back” in order to reclaim his life.“I need to forget about that period, what happened in Oakland, and get my life straight,” he said.Doris Burke contributed research.Advertisement