AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Victor MatherKareem Hunt, the former Kansas City Chiefs star running back who was captured on video pushing and kicking a woman, was suspended without pay for the first eight games of the regular season by the N.F.L. on Friday.Hunt, who joined the Cleveland Browns in February, a year after the incident, will not appeal the suspension, which will mean he will miss the first half of the season.The N.F.L. said in a statement that the suspension came in connection with a physical altercation at his residence in Cleveland last February and at a resort in Ohio last June.The league recently completed its investigation, which it said included “reviewing available law enforcement records, video and electronic communications, interviews with numerous witnesses, and multiple interviews with Hunt.”The eight-game suspension, which will start at the beginning of the regular season, is one of the heaviest for players involved in abuse and violence cases.The league’s handling of these cases has been under intense scrutiny since 2014, when Commissioner Roger Goodell suspended Ray Rice for two games after video emerged of him punching his fiancée. The suspension was roundly criticized as too short, and Goodell later apologized and strengthened penalties for violence and abuse.Less than two weeks later, more vivid video of Rice punching his fiancée was published by the celebrity website TMZ. The league suspended Rice indefinitely, a penalty that was later overturned, and he has never returned to the N.F.L. The league’s policies and investigative abilities have also been tested in abuse cases involving Greg Hardy, Adrian Peterson, Josh Brown and other players.The N.F.L. has hired former prosecutors and others with experience in investigating misconduct cases. Even so, the league has had to walk a fine line between taking a tough stand against violence against women and waiting to complete its investigations before deciding whether to penalize a player or league executive.In the incident at Hunt’s residence, an upscale apartment in downtown Cleveland, the videotaped altercation with a woman did not result in a police case. Hunt pushed a 19-year-old woman, and was then held back by other men. He broke free, and the woman fell down in the chaos. Hunt then kicked her. In the resort incident several months later, Hunt is accused of punching a man in the face. No charges were filed in that case either.The cases renewed debate and discussion over how seriously the N.F.L. investigates and punishes players’ behavior off the field, particularly fights and assaults that are reported but do not result in police charges.An examination of the league’s investigation shows that the N.F.L. relied heavily on the word of the Chiefs, who had a vested interest in keeping their star running back on the field, and did not press to independently verify the account of the incident that Hunt gave to them.When the video emerged in November, the N.F.L. suspended Hunt, though it had learned of the altercation months earlier. The Chiefs, who also knew of the incident long before, then released him.The N.F.L. said it was unable to obtain the video, which TMZ published. League officials suggested that TMZ had paid for the video, which they said the league would not do for fear others might try to extort money from the N.F.L.Hunt had starred as a rookie for the team in 2017, leading the league in rushing yards, and had played well again in his second season, gaining 824 yards in 11 games.In February, Hunt was signed by the Browns. John Dorsey, the general manager, said: “Given what we know about Kareem through our extensive research, we believe he deserves a second chance.”In the announcement, Hunt was quoted as saying: “First off, I would like to once again apologize for my actions last year. What I did was wrong and inexcusable.”Signing Hunt was a risk because he faced disciplinary action from the league. But the Browns have been eager to make over the once woeful team. After 1-15 and 0-16 seasons, the team, led by the promising rookie quarterback Baker Mayfield, raced to a 7-8-1 record in the 2018 season, its best since 2007. Hopes are high for an even better season next year: On Tuesday the team traded for the receiving superstar Odell Beckham Jr. from the Giants.Hunt grew up in a suburb of Cleveland and went to the University of Toledo.The Browns are not the only team willing to sign a player under a cloud. In 2015, the Cowboys signed Hardy, a defensive lineman who had been convicted of beating his girlfriend. The case was dismissed on appeal. The N.F.L. suspended Hardy for 10 games, but the penalty was reduced to four games on appeal.In November, the Redskins claimed linebacker Reuben Foster off waivers after he was released by the San Francisco 49ers days after he was arrested in Tampa, Fla., on a misdemeanor domestic violence charge.The league suspended Foster indefinitely with pay, but the Redskins signed him anyway. The charges against Foster were dropped in January.Advertisement