AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSo a compelling two-year run of American political and cultural theater comes to a deeply unsatisfying conclusion. Colin Kaepernick, a once brilliant young quarterback, chose to take a knee for his beliefs and endured apparent blackballing by the most powerful sports league in North America.It would be churlish to criticize this man for taking an unspecified financial settlement and signing a nondisclosure agreement with the National Football League after he had accused the league’s teams of colluding to keep him out. He sacrificed for his beliefs and with a dignified use of free speech, that grandest of American traditions, he came to personify a coming of political age across several sports.He persevered despite sprays of vitriol from this nation’s president, Donald J. Trump, who in 2017 used the specter of this black man to stir resentments.“Wouldn’t you love to see one of those N.F.L. owners, when someone disrespects our flag, to say: ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’ ” Trump told a crowd in Alabama.It was catnip for the vastly white crowds that roared in disgust over Kaepernick.It is galling that Kaepernick and his former teammate Eric Reid, who joined him in the protest and legal action, must remain mum about the corruptions of the industrial complex known as the N.F.L. The owners almost certainly conspired to blackball Kaepernick, ensuring that he would never throw another pass in the league.As he sought to sign on with a new team for the season after his protest began, and less than five years after he had taken the 49ers to the Super Bowl, owners came up with ever more pathetic excuses for refusing to sign a quarterback so swift and so strong of arm.Now he can say nothing about that travesty. It feels a bit like the Freedom Riders integrating a lunch counter and agreeing not to talk about it.I called Ira Glasser, a former director of the American Civil Liberties Union who is also a deep-dyed sports fan. He resolutely declined to second-guess Kaepernick for surveying the ruin of his career and probably taking a large chunk of money.“He was a star who burst upon the scene explosively, and maybe he extracted as much justice as he could from this situation,” Glasser said. “But it does leave a stain on the N.F.L. that ought not to be eradicated in the public mind.”Kaepernick did not burn a flag or even hold a proud fist aloft. It’s a measure of the subtle nature of his protest that fans and sportswriters went three preseason games before they noticed that, oh yeah, Kaepernick was sitting out the national anthem.When they asked the young quarterback about it, he talked about police brutality and too many dead black Americans: “To me this is bigger than football, and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.”In the next game and thereafter, Kaepernick took a knee instead, at the suggestion of a military veteran. Yet the whirlwind of anger somehow gained in force.In the first weeks of that season, I flew to San Francisco to draw his measure. To step into the 49ers postgame locker room was to find a remarkably composed man with the support of many teammates. He walked out of the shower that night and slipped a form-fitting shirt over a lithe, tattooed torso. Then he turned to a bristling array of microphones and cameras and calmly answered every question.Are you proud, a reporter asked him, of your role in stirring players around the N.F.L. — several knelt or raised fists Sunday during the various anthems — to protest? Kaepernick, a new arrival to the world of political activism, shook his head. No airs, man, no airs.“No, no,” he said. “This movement wasn’t for me. As I’ve researched these things, as I’ve seen more and more, it’s not right.”He spoke instead of how social media and reading and looking at photographs online had driven home to him how many blacks were dying at the hands of the police.“You see things instantly, day after day, and it’s hard,” he told us before citing some of the casualties. “For me, I couldn’t see another hashtag Sandra Bland, hashtag Tamir Rice, hashtag Walter Scott.”“At what point,” he continued, “do we take a stand?”It was dissent, yes, and as unthreatening and American as you could find in a country so often given over now to partisan furies. As Glasser, the civil libertarian, said to me Friday, “If that’s not acceptable to this country, what is it that we are supposed to be fighting for?”Colin Kaepernick the football player may soon move into history’s mists. Kaepernick the human rights activist, the man Amnesty International named an ambassador of conscience, may just be coming into his own.You hope only that this young man walked away with a mother lode from the league without shame.Advertisement