AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Ken BelsonATLANTA — Ten days after a controversial noncall marred the ending of the N.F.C. championship game, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell finally addressed it publicly, acknowledging that the officials had blown the call.“It is a play that should be called,” he said at his annual state of the league address on Wednesday. “Whenever officiating is part of any kind of discussion postgame, it is never a good outcome for us. We know that, our clubs know that, our officials know that.”Late in the fourth quarter in a tied N.F.C. championship game on Jan. 20, with New Orleans deep in Los Angeles territory, Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman hit Saints wide receiver Tommylee Lewis before he could attempt to catch a pass. Robey-Coleman could have been called for pass interference or helmet-to-helmet contact, but instead was called for neither.The Saints went on to kick a field goal but left enough time on the clock for the Rams to tie the score and send the game into overtime, where Los Angeles won.The league had refused to comment publicly on the play for more than a week, but Saints Coach Sean Payton said shortly after the game that Al Riveron, the N.F.L.’s director of officiating, had told him officials got the call wrong. Robey-Coleman was later fined for a helmet-to-helmet hit.“We understand the frustration of the fans,” Goodell said Wednesday before detailing the extensive contacts the league had with the Saints, including their owner, Gayle Benson.“Coach Payton spoke to Al Riveron, our head of officiating, immediately after the game,” Goodell said. “Al told him that is a play we want to have called. I have spoken to him. Troy Vincent, the head of football ops, has spoken to him. I have spoken to Mrs. Benson. The coach has also talked to the head of the competition committee, Rich McKay.”Asked if he had considered ordering the game replayed from the point of the missed call, Goodell said, “Absolutely not.” He also noted the league rule book states that the results of games should not be overturned because of routine officiating errors.Goodell said the league’s competition committee would consider changes to instant replay to address such calls, but he added that in the past there had been little appetite to allow replay officials to call penalties on plays where no flag was thrown. He also said he did not think adding an eighth official was a good solution.“I don’t think adding an official is an answer to all of the issues, and particularly this issue,” Goodell said.Goodell’s 40-minute question-and-answer session was dominated by the play in New Orleans, but Goodell also was asked about a number of other hot-button topics, including Colin Kaepernick; the effectiveness of the league’s Rooney Rule in diversifying coaching staffs; President Trump; the messy inheritance fight over the Denver Broncos; and league investigations of the players Kareem Hunt and Reuben Foster.The most pointed question invoked Atlanta’s past as a hub of the civil rights movement, and how history will judge Kaepernick’s continued absence from the league. Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, has filed a grievance accusing owners of colluding to keep him out of the N.F.L. because of his social activism.Goodell said the league office had no role in the personnel decisions of individual teams. “Our clubs are the ones that make decisions on players that they want to have on their roster,” he said, adding, “That is something we as the N.F.L. take pride in.”He also was asked if the league’s Rooney Rule, which requires teams to interview at least one minority candidate for head coach openings, was still effective. The rule was strengthened in December, but the number of minority coaches in the league has dropped precipitously after four black head coaches were fired after the season.Goodell said the league did not view the success or failure of the Rooney Rule, which was adopted in 2003, in one-year increments. He said the league was talking with coaches about how to provide greater opportunities to minority coaches, and announced that a quarterback summit would be held in June at Morehouse College, a historically black college in Atlanta, to train new coaches.The commissioner refused to take the bait when asked about President Trump, who said two years ago that the N.F.L. should allow more and harder hits. Goodell noted the irony of his being asked about officials throwing too many flags at a news conference dominated by criticism of a game in which a flag was not thrown, before saying simply that the N.F.L. strives for games to be officiated at the “highest level.”Asked about the ongoing fight in Denver over the inheritance of the Broncos, Goodell said that it was “sad when disputes like this occur,” but that he could not say much publicly because the league office could have to adjudicate the dispute.Finally, Goodell said league investigations into Foster and Hunt were continuing. Foster, a linebacker, was released by the 49ers after being arrested on domestic violence charges for a second time, then was signed by the Washington Redskins. Charges against Foster have been dropped, but Goodell said Foster still could be punished under the league’s personal conduct policy.Hunt, a running back, was released by the Kansas City Chiefs in November after TMZ published video showing him pushing and kicking a woman. He remains unsigned. A New York Times investigation revealed that the N.F.L., despite interviewing Hunt earlier in the year, failed to question him about the incident. Goodell said there had been a “tremendous amount of progress” made in the investigation in the last 30 to 60 days, though he did not detail what that progress entailed.Advertisement