AdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. I started writing this newsletter in the weird liminal space between Australia and the United States, caught in the 24-hour miasma that haunts the travel home. I was living in the moment, but what moment it was, what day, what hour, was a mystery. Occasionally there was food, and I ate it; water, and I drank it. Sleep came and then vanished. It was a Sofia Coppola film stuck in turnaround. The script needed work.I thought about cooking a lot, how I couldn’t wait to get back to the kitchen and boogie: a Reuben to eat with a cold beer; some fire-tingly Chinese lamb burgers to share with the family while the dog lolls beneath our feet; a green okonomiyaki to split with my wife; some sheet-pan chicken fajitas (above) to feed the kids and their friends.So there’s that. But now that I’m back home, I’d like to make a freestyle chicken Parm as well, eat it with a glass of stringent red, try to explain this story I saw in Sydney about the pressure some are bringing on the International Cricket Council to adopt one brand of cricket ball for Test matches between countries. There are lots of new words and phrases to consider there. Leg spinner!I’d like to make bananas Foster bread pudding, if only because it asserts an excellence in American dessert and I haven’t had it in ages. Also: Melissa Clark’s recipe for an omelet mousseline, into which I’d like to fold some sea urchin just as if my name were Riad Nasr or Lee Hanson. What a meal that would be! Please try it in my name.Samin Nosrat’s Roman egg drop soup? Francis Lam’s caramelized scallions, to stir into noodles? Julia Moskin’s chicken francese? Yotam Ottolenghi’s one-pan pasta with harissa Bolognese? All those, too.There are many thousands more recipes to cook this week waiting for you on NYT Cooking. (You will, yes, need a subscription to access them. Buying one supports our work!) You can also find inspiration on our Instagram, Facebook and Twitter feeds and, as always, you can ask us for help if you run into trouble with your cooking or our technology: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We will get back to you. (If you’re particularly exercised, though, don’t bother those good people. I’m at foodeditor@nytimes.com, and I absorb heat.)Now, it’s a long fly ball from Vegemite and sangers, but I think you might really like Lou Berney’s haunting “November Road,” a noir romance that takes place in the wake of the Kennedy assassination.Also, looking back toward Australia, Garry Disher’s “Whispering Death.”I missed the Amy Winehouse documentary “Amy” when it came out a few years ago. Watched it on Netflix and can’t get a few scenes out of my head. Maybe that’ll happen to you, too?Finally, a must-read: Alec MacGillis on “The Tragedy of Baltimore,” in The New York Times Magazine. See you on Wednesday? That’s the idea.cookingcookingAdvertisement