AdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnRandolph Ross makes the unrecognizable recognizable.By Deb AmlenTHURSDAY PUZZLE — It’s Thursday, so it’s highly likely that you have spent some time staring at the grid, challenging your brain to untangle the tricky clues and unfurl the clever theme before you. This, of course, is a complicated and highly intellectual process that, if it could be boiled down to a single sound, would consist mainly of “What?” It took a while for me to understand Randolph Ross’s theme, but that’s par for the course on most Thursdays. When I finally got it, it was the kind of “Aha!” moment that reached around and slapped me in the back of the head. The slap is one of the best feelings in the world, at least to crossword puzzle solvers. I thought it was very clever, and Mr. Ross explains some further surprising constraints he set for himself in his notes below.It was all because of those sounds in the clues. And none of them were “What?”15A: “It holds water” is a phrase sometimes used to describe an idea that has some positive things going for it, but in this puzzle, we’re looking for something that really does hold water. The answer is STREAM BED, which was an ever-so-slightly awkward entry, in my opinion. I had STREAM_ _ D for the longest time, and the BE that completed the phrase were two of the last letters I filled in.19A: TIL that you need to rack up 501 points to win a game of DARTS. I don’t know how long that takes the average player, but I’m almost certain that the game was designed to keep people in the pub and buying more pints.30A: I’m not one for banning words or phrases from puzzles, but the phrase AH SO stuck in my craw. It was used in the old Charlie Chan movies (where Chan was played by an white actor and his way of speaking was racist to say the least), and I can remember when it was also used outside of movies to demean Asian-Americans. Yes, it’s not clued that way (“‘I can see clearly now’”), but how many people in 2019 really say “AH SO” when they understand something? I’d be much more likely to say “Ah, O.K.” or “Oh, O.K.”38A: I’m ashamed to say that I didn’t really learn how to take care of my car until midlife, but when you are trying to play catch up in that way, you tend to remember these things. The air in tires is measured in pounds per square inch, which is abbreviated as P.S.I.57A: Read that as U.N. VOTE, not UNVOTE. 6D: If you are from New York City, hand up if you confidently scribbled or typed M.T.A. in this slot because we have an L line in our subway system and we also have a tendency to believe that New York is the center of the universe. But look at the clue a little closer: The L is in quotes. This should be read as “el,” which was abbreviated from the word “elevated” until (warning: joke ahead) even that got to be too much, so Chicagoans abbreviated it further to simply “L.” The answer is C.T.A., short for the Chicago Transit Authority.11D: This clue — “Thunder, but not Lightning” — could have been much trickier if the word Lightning hadn’t been capitalized, but the editors aren’t that cruel, at least not on a Thursday. This is a “veiled capital” clue, which is covered in our solving guide in the “Cracking the Harder Clues” section. This type of clue hides a proper noun, which would have a capitalized first letter, at the beginning of the clue sentence, which would also be capitalized. So the Thunder is not an atmospheric rumble, it’s an N.B.A. TEAM, whereas the Lightning is not.56D: Tegan and SARA are identical twins and an indie pop duo from Calgary, Alberta.Mr. Ross has put together an interesting set of word pairs that also happen to be real things, like “Blue jay.” The theme clues have two parts: The first part is an adjective and the second part is a noun. Yes, I know a lot of phrases are made up of adjectives and nouns, but bear with me. We’re not told what we’re supposed to do with these adjectives and nouns, and you may be stuck wondering about that for a while, but this is where that slap in the head comes in.It turns out that those nouns are homophones for letters of the alphabet. So “jays” stands for “J’s,” and the color “Blue” indicates two things that begin with the letter J that are blue. For example, the answer to “Blue jays,” is JASMINE AND JEANS, which, on the surface, sounds like a somewhat offbeat perfume. But if you put “blue” before each of those J words, you get BLUE JASMINE and BLUEJEANS.Similarly, at 26A, the entry for “Honey bees” is BADGERS AND BEARS, because the animal kingdom has both HONEY BADGERS and HONEY BEARS. There are three more theme entries, but I’ll let you find them.The theme entries started with JASMINE AND JEANS. I noted this would make a 15-letter entry with a cute clue (“Blue jays”) that could be paralleled with “Dry eyes,” “Honey bees,” “High seas,” and “Green peas.” Coming up with four 15-letter entries and a 9-letter entry for the middle was a lot for a daily puzzle, but I didn’t want to give any of them up and I thought the challenge to craft a 72 word grid that could hold them all would be something I wanted to try. To make it even harder for myself, I kept the parts of each pairing in alphabetical order.Designing the theme entries this way probably caused me to have a few more abbreviations than I would have liked, which may displease some solvers. I think the trade-off for an abundance of long theme entries was worth it in this puzzle. I know sometimes it’s not, and a constructor should knock out the weakest theme entry for the sake of the rest of the grid; but I managed to get a real tight theme and the personal constructing pleasure of crafting an interlock that held so many long answers.RESAND was also an entry I didn’t particularly like — it’s not a word most, if any, solvers would use or hear. I spent a long time trying to get rid of it. However, when I thought of the clue “Smooth over” I thought that would compensate for the not so great “re” word. RSVPED and NBA TEAM, with their consecutive consonants both got me out of trouble in the grid. I also came up with the original UN VOTE to help me complete the fill.This was a fun crossword constructing exercise for me. I hope it’s also an “aha moment” for solvers when the theme answers are discovered.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay Advertisement