AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonThe Kansas City Chiefs said on Friday that they had begun an inquiry into their star receiver Tyreek Hill in response to news reports that said the police were investigating his involvement in a battery on a juvenile.“The club is aware of the investigation involving Tyreek Hill,” the Chiefs said in a statement. “We’re in the process of gathering information and have been in contact with the league and local authorities. We’ll have no further comment at this time.”The Kansas City Star reported on Friday that it had obtained a police report that was filed on Thursday after officers responded to a report of a battery on a juvenile at Hill’s home in Overland Park, Kan., a Kansas City suburb. The report does not give details.KCTV said Hill, 25, was involved in two incidents, one on March 5 and another on March 14, according to copies of the police reports that it published. The first report names Hill and his fiancée, Crystal Espinal, and cites “child abuse/neglect.” The case was closed three days later when the police declined to file charges. The second report lists “battery” as the type of incident, but does not indicate what the disposition was.The N.F.L. did not return calls seeking comment.A spokesman at the Overland Park Police Department said the second case, from March 14, has been referred to the Johnson County district attorney’s office in Kansas.A spokesman for the district attorney’s office said that it had not yet received the report and that it would take a few days to process the report once it was received.In 2014, Hill was arrested on domestic violence charges while he was at Oklahoma State. He pleaded guilty to abusing and choking Espinal, who was pregnant at the time, and received three years’ probation.Hill was kicked out of the program and played the 2015 season at the University of West Alabama. He was not invited to the N.F.L. scouting combine because of his legal troubles, but was chosen by the Chiefs in the fifth round of the 2016 draft.Last season was Hill’s best in the N.F.L. He caught 87 passes for 1,479 yards and 12 touchdowns; the team made it to the A.F.C. championship game, losing to the New England Patriots, 37-31, in overtime. He is also one of the league’s best punt returners.The report about Hill came the same day the N.F.L. suspended the former Chiefs running back Kareem Hunt for eight games because of two incidents last year, one of which involved violence against a 19-year-old woman. The Chiefs released Hunt in November after video of that incident was published. He was later picked up by the Cleveland Browns.Advertisement