AdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaTwo days after fans in the United Arab Emirates threw shoes at rival players during a 4-0 loss in the semifinals to Qatar at the Asian Cup, the country’s soccer federation has taken direct aim at the team itself.Organizers of the Asian Cup said on Thursday that they would respond to an official complaint lodged by Emirates soccer officials, who charged that two members of the Qatari team were ineligible to play in the region’s biggest tournament.The players — Almoez Ali, a Sudan-born striker, and Bassam al-Rawi, a defender born in Iraq — are fixtures in Qatar’s lineup. Ali is the tournament’s top scorer, with eight goals in six games, and al-Rawi scored the goal that sent Qatar to the quarterfinals.The complaint is the latest salvo in a bitter dispute between the Gulf neighbors that goes far beyond soccer. The Emirates is part of a two-year-old, Saudi-led blockade of Qatar, driven by a belief that its neighbor is financing terrorism and growing too close to Iran, Saudi Arabia’s biggest regional rival; Qatar has denied playing any role in supporting terrorist groups.The dispute has already manifested itself in ways small and large in the tournament, which now represents Qatar’s biggest success on the soccer field.One consequence of the dispute is that there are no direct flights from Doha to Abu Dhabi, so Qatar’s team had to fly through Oman on its way to the event, and Qatari fans — unable to travel to the Emirates without permission — are largely absent at the team’s matches.But Qatar, which has never qualified for a World Cup but will host the event in 2022, has been the surprise of the field. It will play Japan in the final on Friday.But even as Qatar marched through the field, rumors — fueled by a close reading of FIFA nationality rules — swirled about the eligibility of Ali and al-Rawi.The silence of Qatari officials on the issue has only led to more rumors. A spokesman for the team has not responded to repeated requests for comment, while FIFA, the global governing body for soccer, has said the matter falls under the jurisdiction of the tournament organizer, the Asian Football Confederation.The A.F.C. had said that it would intervene only an official complaint were filed. That complaint arrived in the aftermath of the Emirates’ humiliating defeat in front of its own fans in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday.“The Asian Football Confederation has a received a protest from the United Arab Emirates F.A. regarding the eligibility of two Qatar players,” the A.F.C. said in a statement on Thursday. “This protest will now be reviewed in line with the A.F.C. regulations.”The A.F.C. declined to identify the possible punishment for Qatar. Teams that have previously fielded ineligible players have forfeited games, but the situation has never come up at the final stages of a major international event.Under soccer’s regulations, players are only eligible for a national team outside of their country of birth if they have lived there for five continuous years after turning 18. Al-Rawi is 21 and Ali is 22. The rules make an exception that permits players to represent a country if a parent or grandparent was born there; many countries, including the United States, regularly take advantage of the exception.Qatar has been trawling the world for talent for years in preparation for the 2022 World Cup, embarking on perhaps the most extensive talent identification program in history, one that involved the creation of training programs for youngsters from Africa and an academy for the best prospects in Doha.Officials in the country have said in the past that the program does not require those scouted to pick Qatar over their birth countries. Though born in Sudan, Ali has lived in Qatar since he was a child. Al-Rawi’s father once represented Iraq internationally.Still, Qatar’s squads at the youth and senior levels have included several expatriate players, and the eligibility was not questioned when Ali and al-Rawi represented the country at previous tournaments sanctioned by FIFA and the A.F.C.It was not clear why the Emirates, or any of Qatar’s other opponents — including Saudi Arabia, which lost to Qatar, 2-0 — did not raise the issue until after the semifinal.The victories over the Saudis and the Emirates were greeted by scenes of jubilation in Qatar, where fans draped in the country’s flag took to the streets of Doha to celebrate the victories.For the hosts, the defeat was particularly painful given the efforts it had made to create a partisan atmosphere inside Abu Dhabi’s Zayed Sports City Stadium. Local organizers distributed thousands of free tickets to what it described as “loyal” fans before the game.For the A.F.C., the issue also raises another political issue. Its president, Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim al-Khalifa of Bahrain, is being challenged for his post by candidates from the Emirates and Qatar.The organization has opened a separate investigation over the shoe- and bottle-throwing incidents that marred the semifinal. That case could lead to sanctions.Advertisement