AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Victor MatherRobert K. Kraft, the owner of the N.F.L.’s New England Patriots, has pleaded not guilty in Florida to charges of soliciting prostitution.The plea, on two first-degree misdemeanor charges, were submitted in writing to the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County, not in person. Mr. Kraft requested a nonjury trial. The plea was filed Monday and made public on Thursday.Mr. Kraft was charged with two first-degree misdemeanor counts of soliciting prostitution. He was one of 25 people charged by the state attorney. If convicted, Mr. Kraft would face up to one year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service. However, at a news conference on Monday, the state attorney, Dave Aronberg, said that first-time offenders rarely spent time in jail.Mr. Kraft has a scheduled court date of March 27 in Florida. He is not required to be present and most likely will be represented by his lawyer, Jack Goldberger.The plea was not a surprise. When news of the charges against Mr. Kraft broke last week, a Patriots spokesman said, “We categorically deny that Mr. Kraft engaged in any illegal activity.”Mr. Kraft could also face discipline from N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell has broad powers to penalize not only players but also league executives and team owners. Mr. Kraft can be fined up to $500,000 and suspended for several games, which would mean he would have to stay away from the team’s practice site and stadium. If Mr. Goodell seeks a harsher penalty, he would need the approval of the other owners.A few owners have been penalized in prior years, but those punishments were for felony convictions. While Mr. Kraft’s legal case is less severe, and the charges could be reduced or dropped, the league could still punish him for “conduct detrimental to the welfare of the League or professional football.”The league has tried to address criticism that it has been too lenient with players accused of domestic abuse. Teams, too, have been criticized for mistreating their cheerleaders. The N.F.L. has also supported efforts by law enforcement agencies to combat human sex trafficking.Mr. Kraft has also donated heavily to My Life, My Choice, a nonprofit organization in Boston that supports girls who were exploited by the commercial sex industry.The police said they had captured Mr. Kraft on video during two visits to a storefront massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla., a 30-minute drive from Palm Beach, where Mr. Kraft stays when he is in Florida.According to the affidavit, he visited the parlor on Jan. 19, arriving in a Bentley driven by a chauffeur. Hidden-camera recordings showed Mr. Kraft entering the massage parlor, and a woman massaging his genitals.The next day, Mr. Kraft returned in a different chauffeur-driven Bentley for a 14-minute visit that included another sex act, according to the affidavit. Later that day, he flew to Kansas City, Mo., where the Patriots beat the Chiefs in the A.F.C. championship game to earn a berth in the Super Bowl.Two weeks later, the Patriots defeated the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, to win their sixth Super Bowl title under Mr. Kraft’s ownership, which began in 1994.Advertisement