AdvertisementSupported byBy Margaux LaskeyThe New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams kick off Super Bowl LIII on Sunday at 6:30 p.m., Eastern time. Whatever jersey you’re wearing, you’re going to need food to sustain you through the thrilling triumph or the agonizing defeat. And for those of you just showing up for the snacks, we’ve got you covered, too.We’ve broken down our best Super Bowl recipes into five of our favorite football food categories, from chili to wings and everything in between.(Going to Atlanta? Here’s your game plan for eating well.)Deep thought: If a football game is watched without beer and wings, was it ever really watched at all? We think not. Here are over 20 of our best chicken wing recipes including classic Buffalo (made on the grill or in the oven); Thai-style peanut; Chinese five-spice; gochujang-honey; and Japanese-style with ginger, soy and chile. Don’t forget the blue cheese or ranch dressing for dipping.View our full collection of amazing recipes for chicken wings._____Buffalo flavor is having a moment, and we’re here to celebrate it beyond wings. For the vegetarians in the stands, there’s Buffalo cauliflower, Buffalo cauliflower dip and Buffalo crudités. Creamy Buffalo chicken dip is another way to get your Buffalo-blue cheese fix. Serve it with chips and celery sticks, or do like recipe developer Ali Slagle suggests and pile it on top of a baked potato, tuck it into a hamburger roll or spoon it on top of cooked macaroni.View our full collection of all things buffalo. _____With over 20 fantastic dip recipes, you’re bound to find one that will please your guests. Go traditional with spinach-artichoke or sour cream and onion, or go rogue with Greek goddess (above) or a modern seven-layer dip. If you’re feeling brave, you could try guacamole with peas (but prepare for a revolt). Make a spread of three or four dips and call it dinner.View our full collection of delicious dips.[Sign up here to receive our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter in your inbox every Friday.]_____So maybe it’s not a traditional football food category, but for the vegan and vegetarian football fans, we have more than 50 vegetarian Super Bowl recipes. Vegetarian tortilla soup, roasted feta with honey, Cheddar scallion dip and zucchini pancakes (above) are just a handful of the satisfying dishes to choose from, so you can just say “no” to the meat sweats.View our full collection of vegetarian Super Bowl recipes._____For chili lovers (who’s not?), here are 14 of our best recipes, including Texas-style, turkey and vegetarian, plus classic and white-bean chicken variations you can make in your slow cooker. Instant Pot lovers, we’ve got your chili, too. Eat from a bowl or serve it as a topping for hot dogs, baked potatoes or nachos. Scoop a ladleful over a pile of Fritos and sprinkle with shredded cheese and there you have it: Frito pie. Check out Sam Sifton’s How to Cook Chili guide here.View our full collection of great chili recipes.Advertisement