we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization. you’ll also get exclusive access to fifa games, contests and prizes.don't have an account yet?introductionsince its birth, football has been integral to our communities. it is more than a game, more than a sport; it is a way of life that we all embrace, regardless of nationality, creed, ethnicity, education, gender or religion."living football" is more than a rallying cry or brand claim; it is what we do, who we are and why we are here.it expresses our commitment to the beautiful game and forever reminds us of the defining role it plays in our communities and in our lives.we will guarantee an environment in which everyone’s passion and dedication to living football is acknowledged, nurtured and respected throughout. and while living football may be embraced and expressed differently by each of us, shaped by our personal relationship with the game, we believe its universal meaning should be understood and shared by all.principles and implicationsliving football is a commitment to the game
football is a game, a sport, a lifestyle that is available and welcoming to all. it is with great clarity, humility and a strong sense of duty that we look towards the future and truly put football at the centre of all that we do.living football is a commitment to the people
whether enjoyed on the pitch, at home, in a café or bar or anywhere else in the world, football is in the fabric of our communities and of our day-to-day lives. it is our responsibility to promote the growth and the development of the game in the long term, irrespective of colour, race, religion, gender or sexual orientation, to every corner of the world.living football is a commitment to the planet
to safeguard the future of football, we must protect the beauty, diversity and quality of life on our planet. we are fully committed to mitigating any negative impacts of our presence and activity on the environment to ensure that all of us, wherever we are, have the opportunity to experience and enjoy the magic and beauty of the game.living football is a commitment to the future
it is about supporting the growth and development of football by nurturing the integrity and quality of the game for everyone, and not just for today, but for generations to come. it inspires us to be an organisation worthy of its mandate as a steward and champion of football for all.conclusionliving football underpins our vision for football; for the here and now, for the future, and for the people who make it so special – be they our players, coaches, fans, partners or administrators. because football does not belong to fifa, nor does it belong to its staff or any other body representing the interests of players, clubs or countries. it belongs to the people; to all of us who live football, every day.so, living football.it is what we do. it is why we are here.