please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization, plus get access to commenting tools, exclusive games, the chance to win cool football prizes and much, much more.don't have an account yet?we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.for the first time in its history, fifa has published a roadmap for the future of football: fifa 2.0. 
the document was unveiled by president infantino during the fifa council meeting on 13 october 2016 and sets the path forward for our work in football’s best interests. fifa’s new vision is to promote the game of football, protect its integrity and bring the game to all.  fifa 2.0 sets out a number of principles, but also concrete and measurable objectives. for example, by the opening whistle of the 2026 fifa world cup™: ·        more than 60% of the world’s population will participate – play, coach, referee, or experience broadly – in the game of football. ·        fifa will invest more than usd 4 billion in developing football ·        fifa will double the number of female players to 60 million. ·        fifa will have optimised internal operations and external business relationships to improve revenue generation and financial efficiencies. how to realise the vision grow the game
through the implementation of the fifa forward development programme, fifa will introduce football to new participants and regions. working with member associations and confederations, fifa will develop the game by increasing targeted investment for individual stakeholders while raising the standards to which all are held. fifa’s development efforts must also better engage all members of the football community regardless of gender, orientation, creed or ethnicity.
enhance the experience
for all: modern technology has redefined sport and its relationship with fans. fifa will work to ensure that those who cannot make it to the match will receive an equally impactful experience in their homes, and fifa and its commercial affiliates must embrace innovation together.
for fans: fifa must communicate with fans transparently and effectively, ensuring that more of them have access to more football through accessible channels. for players, coaches and referees: technological advances continue to aid the improvement of footballers’ performances on the field, coaches’ ability to strategise and referees’ ability to protect the integrity of the game. in 2016, fifa worked with the international football association board (ifab) to approve a detailed set of protocols guiding live experiments with video assistant referees – and this is only the beginning. fifa will continue to invest in technologies that benefit all those who grace the pitch. for commercial affiliates: working together, fifa and its partners have achieved great success. as technologies create new pathways for communication, fifa’s commercial affiliates will look for new ways to showcase their brands with maximum scale and impact. build a stronger institution
at the home of fifa: the election of a new leadership has been accompanied by the overwhelming approval of sweeping reforms, and the organisation has built on these considerable improvements in governance, transparency and accountability by restructuring its internal operations.
in the football ecosystem: fifa’s new leadership has recommitted itself to human rights and diversity. the organisation will also heighten its oversight of member associations and ensure that all stakeholders are held to the appropriate standards of governance. the strategy to get there investment: fifa will dedicate significant resources and human capital to developing the game and enhancing the football experience. innovation: fifa will leverage technological advances to improve the quality of the football experience for all. ownership: fifa will assume greater responsibility for the governance, scale and effectiveness of its operation. the guiding principles transparency: fifa will be transparent in how it governs and grows the game, operates its business and interacts with key stakeholders. accountability: fifa will be held accountable by football stakeholders around the globe – particularly member associations. inclusivity: fifa will reflect the world and the communities in which it operates. cooperation: fifa will actively engage with football’s diverse ecosystem to shape the future of football 