which powerhouse will rule the al? can anyone top the dodgers in a crowded nl race? as a new season begins, we've got you covered with predictions, rankings and all of the preview content you need to get ready for baseball in 2019.espn opening day schedule: orioles-yankees, 1 p.m. et. braves-phillies, 3 et (espn+). d-backs-dodgers, 4 et. red sox-mariners, 7 et.picks for all 15 openers. the state of all 30 teams -- and exclusive intel from across the majors. get ready for the 2019 mlb season here.mvp? booed in philly? predicting bryce harper's first year with philliescan the red sox repeat? will the yankees take them down or the astros roar back to the top? we break down all 30 teams ahead of the 2019 season.espn+: keith law's win-loss predictions for all 30 teamsfrom big names in new places to must-see superstar showdowns, these are the storylines you'll be talking about all season long.will the red sox repeat? who will rule the loaded nl east? we made our picks -- and you can make your own.will mike trout win his third mvp or nolan arenado his first? who will deliver cy-worthy seasons? add your picks to our own.kluber's cutter. mad max's change -- and three more unhittable weapons. we combine baseball's best stuff into one dominant ace.from his rare rookie card to the current edition, we examine how baseball's best player has improved year to year -- and talk to him about his statistical jumps and 2019 goals.houston to win the al west? sure, if you like easy money. how about yasiel puig for mvp or texas to win a playoff game? those are just two of the long shots our writers and reporters are eyeing.espn+: preston johnson's season win total projections for all 30 teams74 home runs? 384 strikeouts? a 57-game hitting streak? history could be made this year, but some standards are more attainable than others.follow our advice to make 2019 the year your team brings home the hardware: bold predictions | sleepers, breakouts & busts | do not draft list | top 300to help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?