 embraced as an immigrant hero, then cast aside as an american failure, felipe lopez would eventually find happiness not as a basketball player, but as the man he was always meant to be.watch the trailer     more »

it all began with wayne gretzky. the very first film in espn's 30 for 30 documentary series was kings ransom, director peter berg's account of the landmark trade of one of the greatest athletes in history.  since that film premiered on october 6, 2009, 30 for 30 has evolved into a series that has both revitalized and revolutionized the art of the sports documentary through a diverse range of filmmakers telling specific stories that touch on larger themes beyond sports.
originally inspired by espn's 30th anniversary with a focus on topics from 1979 to 2009, the peabody, emmy-winning and academy award-winning series has extended beyond that framework and has now produced more than 90 films, from the u, the two escobars and you don't know bo to the first-ever 30 for 30 film event, o.j: made in america.  with each documentary, the filmmakers have brought their passion and personal approach to the screen, detailing the issues, trends, athletes, teams, rivalries, games and moments that have transformed the sports landscape. so much has come from that initial launch in october of 2009.  but if 30 for 30 has indeed yielded the ransom of a king, its true value lies in the excitement for the stories yet untold.
volume 2  »embraced as an immigrant hero, then cast aside as an american failure, felipe lopez would eventually find happiness not as a basketball player, but as the man he was always meant to be.capturing the whirlwind 24 hours in october of 1992 - when sanders sandwiched a pro football game around a pair of postseason baseball games, in two different cities a thousand miles apart.what douglas did defied logic and the odds when he beat iron mike in 10 rounds. 42 to 1 tells the story of just how incredibly unlikely it was.  
u.s. marshals set up sting operation to lure area criminals to pick up free tickets to a redskins game. 

high school basketball in alaska has become an exciting tribal tradition.

a 0-113 horse became a symbol of hope for japan. 

the history of the 'we are penn state' chant and it's continued meaning.
30 for 30 on twitter »