we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization. you’ll also get exclusive access to fifa games, contests and prizes.don't have an account yet?world football
            15 feb 2019
          years of trying is what it took ecuador to become the sixth nation to conquer the south american u-20 championship. uruguay qualified for their seventh fifa u-20 world cup in succession – a record for a south america side – while brazil failed to make it to back-to-back global finals for the first time.clean sheets in the uefa champions league is what gianluigi buffon became only the third goalkeeper to reach after edwin van der sar (50) and iker casillas (57). the 41-year-old helped paris saint-germain inflict upon manchester united their heaviest home defeat in 63 years of european competition.goals is what fiorentina scored between conceding their eighth and ninth goals of the women’s serie a season. the prolificacy of france 2019 hopefuls alia guagni, ilaria mauro, lana clelland and tatiana bonetti has helped la viola claim 25 points from a possible 27 to climb one point behind leaders juventus.years and six months was the age at which matthijs de ligt became the youngest player in champions league history to start a knockout game as captain, breaking the record set by cesc fabregas for arsenal when he was almost 22. in the same game, vinicius junior outranked raul to become the youngest player to represent real madrid in the knockout phase of the tournament.goals in the copa libertadores is ricardo oliveira's career tally thanks to back-to-back braces against danubio, to outrank zico, jardel (both 16), pele and robinho (both 17) and go sixth on the list of highest-scoring brazilians in the competition. the 38-year-old has nine goals in five appearances in all competitions in 2019.premier league hat-tricks is what sergio aguero reached, thanks to trebles in back-to-back home games against arsenal and chelsea, to equal alan shearer’s record. five of them have come since the start of 2018, while the rest of the premier league have managed merely six between them in the same period, courtesy of aaron ramsey, mo salah (twice), eden hazard, roberto firmino and diogo jota. @etihadairways player of the month @10aguerosergiokun on his hair and #lordoftherings tatt! 🔵 #mancitya post shared by  manchester city (@mancity) on feb 14, 2019 at 4:53am pstgoals in just four danish superliga games is what fc copenhagen’s robert skov – despite operating on the right-wing – has astonishingly scored. that run includes three hat-tricks and a brace, as well as four free-kicks.goals without reply is what benfica smashed past nacional to record their biggest portuguese liga win since eusebio hit a double-treble in a victory over seixal by the same score 55 years ago. delivery don pizzi now has nine combined goals and assists in his last three league appearances, while haris seferovic has hit nine goals in six games in the competition.of the last seven penalties he’s faced in serie a have been saved by salvatore sirigu. the 32-year-old, who repelled three of the five spot-kicks he faced in la liga, denied udinese’s argentina winger rodrigo de paul on sunday to help torino keep three consecutive clean sheets in serie a for the first time since christian abbiati inspired the feat 12 years ago.a pedido de várias famílias... aquela jogada aos 32'. #slbcdn pic.twitter.com/yxljmied44hours after leaving school for the weekend, izacck powell outranked australia’s brazil 2014 winger tommy oar to become brisbane roar’s youngest-ever player at the age of 16 years and 361 days. an epic injury-and-suspension crisis heightened when interim coach darren davies lost defenders luke devere and jack hingert early on against sydney fc, forcing powell’s introduction, and the student incredibly helped roar win for the first time in 13 matches.fifa u-20 world cup11 feb 2019