francis ngannou and cain velasquez face off in the heavyweight main event of ufc fight night in phoenix on sunday. the headline bout and nine other fights are on espn/espn deportes starting at 7 p.m., with three prelims on espn+ at 5:30 p.m.ngannou challenged for the heavyweight title but lost to stipe miocic. velasquez twice reigned as champion, first winning the belt in 2010.the ufc is now on espn and espn+. subscribe to espn+ to get: exclusive live ufc events, weigh-ins and more; ariel and the bad guy; dana white's contender series; and more exclusive mma content.
watch the fights: download the espn app | watchespn | tvdon't have espn? learn how to get instant access today: espninstantaccess.comalso on the card: james vick and paul felder meet in the co-main event, both trying to get back on the winning track at lightweight; and former bantamweight champ renan barao fights in the prelims, trying to end a three-fight skid by taking on luke sanders.don't have espn+ to watch the early prelims? get it here.have espn+ and want to link your account across devices? learn how here.ufc fight night: ngannou vs. velasquezespn and espn deportes, 9 p.m. etfrancis ngannouvs.cain velasquezheavyweightjames vickvs.paul felderlightweightcortney caseyvs.cynthia calvillostrawweightalex caceresvs.kron graciemen's featherweightvicente luquevs.bryan barberenawelterweightandre filivs.myles jurymen's featherweightespn and espn deportes, 7 p.m. etjimmie riveravs.aljamain sterlingmen's bantamweightbenito lopezvs.manny bermudezmen's bantamweightashlee evans-smithvs.andrea leewomen's flyweightscott holtzmanvs.nik lentzlightweightespn+, 5:30 p.m. etjessica pennevs.jodie esquibelstrawweightrenan baraovs.luke sandersmen's bantamweightaleksandra albuvs.emily whitmirestrawweighttop stories• ufc fight night: ngannou vs. velasquez cheat sheet• the return of cain velasquez• in debut, gracie can show ufc success runs in family • how to bet ufc fight night: velasquez vs. ngannou• stats that will define cain velasquez vs. francis ngannou• cain velasquez sees ufc heavyweight title shot within reach
the ufc is now on espn and espn+. subscribe to espn+ to get: exclusive live ufc events, weigh-ins and more; ariel and the bad guy; dana white's contender series; and more exclusive mma content.watch the fights: download the espn app | watchespn | tvdon't have espn? learn how to get instant access today: espninstantaccess.comalso on the card: james vick and paul felder meet in the co-main event, both trying to get back on the winning track at lightweight; and former bantamweight champ renan barao fights in the prelims, trying to end a three-fight skid by taking on luke sanders.don't have espn+ to watch the early prelims? get it here.have espn+ and want to link your account across devices? learn how here.• ufc fight night: ngannou vs. velasquez cheat sheet• the return of cain velasquez• in debut, gracie can show ufc success runs in family • how to bet ufc fight night: velasquez vs. ngannou• stats that will define cain velasquez vs. francis ngannou• cain velasquez sees ufc heavyweight title shot within reachto help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?