we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization. you’ll also get exclusive access to fifa games, contests and prizes.don't have an account yet?fédération internationale de football associationfifa-strasse 20 - p.o. box - 8044 zurich - switzerlandtel: +41-(0)43-222 7777international transfer matching system
            20 mar 2018
          fifa’s international transfer matching system (itms) reached an important milestone today, as the 100,000th international transfer was processed since the system became mandatory in 2010. itms is the result of a decision made in may 2007, when the fifa congress voted to create an online system for international professional football transfers, with the objective of increasing integrity and transparency in the transfer market. since 1 october 2010, when itms became mandatory for all international transfers of professional 11 a-side male players around the world, the transfers completed in the system have involved a total of 50,142 players, 6,837 clubs and 199 of the 211 fifa member associations. earlier this year, the scope of itms was extended in accordance with the fifa regulations on the status and transfer of players, so that all international transfers of professional female players within 11 a side football now also need to be entered in itms.itms increases transparency, integrity and governance in the transfer market, working directly with fifa’s 211 member associations and over 7,000 professional clubs to assist in the international transfer of professional players and to help ensure that those who engage in such transfers and the movement of minors follow the fifa regulations on the status and transfer of players.through the tms global transfers & compliance department, fifa manages and monitors the transfers in itms. every year, member associations and certain affiliated professional clubs receive training and ongoing education and support on the application and use of the system. transfer activity is monitored, enabling fifa to identify and investigate possible breaches of the fifa transfer rules.   with the number of transfers completed in itms rising each year, fifa remains committed to increasing integrity in the transfer market and ensuring that the international movement of professional players, both men and women, is conducted in a transparent manner with the objective of guaranteeing a level playing field throughout the world.fifa publishes annual reports detailing aggregated transfer activity each year as well as various other reports, all of which are available for free download. the list of reports and more information on itms can be found at fifatms.com.governance30 jan 2018governance13 sep 2017governance27 jan 2017governance20 feb 2015