we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization. you’ll also get exclusive access to fifa games, contests and prizes.don't have an account yet?fédération internationale de football associationfifa-strasse 20 - p.o. box - 8044 zurich - switzerlandtel: +41-(0)43-222 7777about fifa
            03 dec 2009
          for the first time in the history of the fifa world cup™, the action on the field at next year's tournament will be broadcast using the next-generation technology 3d. fifa today (3 december 2009) announced that it had signed a media rights agreement with sony, an official fifa partner, to deliver 3d images from up to 25 matches of the 2010 fifa world cup south africa™. to this end, fifa will use the best expertise available in its production in 3d, and take advantage of sony’s technologies and knowhow in the area of 3d.this groundbreaking deal means that viewers watching the matches on sony’s 3d products will experience the sheer immediacy and visual clarity of the action as if they were on the pitch themselves. fifa is working on whether a live right will be offered in the coming months.“this propels the football fan into a whole new viewing dimension and marks the dawning of a new era in the broadcasting of sport,” said fifa secretary general jérôme valcke. “we are proud that the fifa world cup can serve as a platform for advancing technology and the viewing experience, and are truly fortunate to have sony as a partner in this endeavour.”“the transition to 3d is underway, and, we, at sony, intend to be leaders in every aspect. our sponsorship of the fifa world cup allows us to leverage our cutting-edge 3d technology and premier products with dazzling content to produce a unique and totally compelling viewing experience. 3d viewers around the world will feel as though they are inside the stadiums in south africa, watching the games in person,” said sir howard stringer, chairman, ceo and president of sony corporation.sony pictures entertainment will produce and distribute the official 3d film of the 2010 fifa world cup south africa™ after the event.about fifa01 dec 2009