we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization. you’ll also get exclusive access to fifa games, contests and prizes.don't have an account yet?fédération internationale de football associationfifa-strasse 20 - p.o. box - 8044 zurich - switzerlandtel: +41-(0)43-222 7777
            26 feb 2016
          fifa’s member associations have today approved a package of landmark reforms that pave the way for significant improvements to the governance of global football, including a clear separation of commercial and political decision-making, greater scrutiny of senior officials, and commitments to promoting women in football and human rights.the reforms were supported by 179 of the 207 member associations present and eligible to vote at the extraordinary congress in zurich. the congress will also elect a new fifa president.the reforms were based on proposals made by the 2016 fifa reform committee and the subsequent recommendations put before the congress by the executive committee in the form of draft fifa statutes. they represent an essential step towards the modernisation of fifa’s institutional culture in key areas such as the clear separation of political and management functions, term limits, the disclosure of individual compensation, greater recognition and promotion of women in football and a commitment to enshrining human rights in the fifa statutes. furthermore, they include statutory principles of good governance for member associations and confederations, such as compulsory annual independent audit reports as well as independent judicial bodies to ensure a separation of powers on all levels of football structures.“we stand united in our determination to put things right, so that the focus can return to football once again,” said acting fifa president issa hayatou. “the hard work of restoring trust and improving how we work begins now.”“this will create a system of stronger governance and greater diversity that will give football a strong foundation on which to thrive. it will help to restore trust in our organisation. and it will deter future wrongdoing.”the main aspects of the approved reforms have been incorporated into an amended version of the fifa statutes. a summary of the approved reforms is available here. in accordance with art. 29 of the current edition of the fifa statutes, the statutory amendments passed today will come into effect for the members 60 days after the close of the congress.25 feb 201626 feb 201626 feb 201601 feb 2016about fifa01 feb 201626 feb 2016about fifa03 dec 201526 feb 2016