we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yessenior writer at the hockey news. big hair, big eyebrows, big love for the game. read the article before you comment.are you sure you want to view these tweets? viewing tweets won't unblock @thnmattlarkinbehold, my probably-terrible stanley cup playoff bracket!pic.twitter.com/0w7dl2qaogsuch a fascinating back-and-forth chess match series between tor and bos. i really do believe the old adage that game 4 is the series’ swing game. instead of being on the ropes, bruins get a split and now two of three at home. pressure shifts back to leafs’ shoulders.finalists

not

nomineesmatt larkin retweeted cleats & cocktailshaven’t had this much fun doing a podcast in a long time! we talked everything from stanley cup playoffs to team finland controversy to the bachelorette. thanks for having me meg and taniella!https://twitter.com/cleatscocktails/status/1118635000591716352 …matt larkin added,swept in round 1, the penguins find themselves on an oddly similar path to chicago, who got swept in round 1 in 2017.

chicago realized it had to get younger – and worse – to get better later. is pittsburgh willing to make the same hard choice?

blog: https://thehockeynews.com/news/article/penguins-must-go-backward-to-go-forward-just-like-the-blackhawks-have …pic.twitter.com/tchxq3loclthe biggest reason i never came out with my mental health issues when i played was the stigma that i was mentally weak when i wasn’t, and coaches didn’t want mentally weak players. 
well @robinlehner and the @nyislanders blowing the doors off the stigma. thank you robin. congratsi'm thinking twitter should release a new feature preventing anyone to tweet in response to an article link unless they click the link and spend 5:00 on the article page, you know, to read the darned thing.

would save a lot of people from embarrassmenti just realized – the rangers lost a first-round pick last night. if tampa won the cup, rangers would've received a conditional first from mcdonagh trade.i feel like there could be a kneejerk reaction from bruins and leafs fans to say “sweet! now we would get columbus in round 2!”

...which would be like saying “sweet! goliath’s out! only gotta beat david in round 2!”this sweep of the pens feels to me like chicago getting swept in 2017. beginning of the end of an empire.columbus kingslayers. nice ring to it?is now a good time to sheepishly point out that before the season we picked columbus to win the metro? so let me update this:

again, every team that owns the record for the most wins in the regular season, has failed to win the championship that same year. just nuts.pic.twitter.com/onybytbdc1bolts fans, i feel for you. this must be devastating.

but for the rest of the league: i can’t remember ever feeling a stronger sense of “anyone can win the cup this year.” every single team alive has a chance. this thing has been blown wide open. and that’s great for the sport“eddie, if i woke up with my head sewn to the carpet, i wouldn’t be more surprised than i am right now.”

— clark w. griswold on jackets/lightningmatt larkin retweeted matt larkingreat thread — love the answers folks!https://twitter.com/thnmattlarkin/status/1118312814177705984 …matt larkin added,trying to think of a comparable upset if cbj completes the feat here.  1994, sharks over red wings?“leaf hater”

“upset the bruins tied it up”

“bruins fan”

i am all the thingspic.twitter.com/wm4ewjkscagame 3 was essentially an alternate-universe look at the leafs' lineup without nazem kadri. so is the rest of the bruins series. if the leafs can win without him, should they consider dealing him for a right-shot defenseman this summer?

blog: https://thehockeynews.com/news/article/if-the-leafs-can-win-without-kadri-should-they-trade-him-for-a-defenseman …pic.twitter.com/lyxoaptbvqmatt larkin retweeted william bendetson patriotsbreaking: standard sportswriter easily pays expansion fee for 33rd nhl franchisehttps://twitter.com/williampatriots/status/1118219898252079104 …matt larkin added,matt larkin retweeted william bendetson patriotsdear standard sportswriter, can you share some of your money with me? thankshttps://twitter.com/williampatriots/status/1118219898252079104 …matt larkin added,

          @thnmattlarkin hasn't tweeted yet.
      back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  