we use cookies to give you a better service e.g. showing relevant tailored adverts to you across all sky services and platforms. by using this website or closing this message you agree to our use of cookies.roll over your data for later.learn moremix your data, calls and texts every month.learn moresky tv customers can watch on the go without using data.learn moreupgrade to a new phone every 12 or 24 months.learn moreeveryone can talk and text for free.learn morewith sky mobile, you can get the device you want, when you want, be it the latest iphone, samsung galaxy or sony xperia. the choice is yours with swap - whether you want the latest model every year or our lowest monthly price. and you can also choose to change your mix of data, calls and texts whenever you like, or roll over your unused data to save it for a time you need it. sky mobile allows you to manage your own data. so you&aposve got the peace of mind that comes from knowing you won&apost run out of data and you&aposll never be hit by unexpected charges. and whether you want the latest model or our lowest monthly price, the choice is yours with swap. choose any device. no charges. no hassle. for full details of how swap works see our sky help article.you can apply for sky mobile if you’re 18 or over and a resident in the uk.if you already have sky tv or join sky tv, free unlimited calls and texts comes as standard with any of our data plans for your phone. however, for a limited time only, we are offering free unlimited calls and texts for everyone.if you already have a sky+ box, then you can also sync sky+ recordings with your device to create your own personal playlist of shows you love to watch, wherever you are.plus, you can also watch sky go and use any sky app without using your data while in the uk or eu/eea. sky apps include: sky go, now tv, sky sports, sky sport mobile tv, sky news, sky kids, sky store, sky cinema, sky vr and the my sky app.just select the unlimited calls and texts plan as you check out. if you have sky+, to watch your personal playlist of shows on your device, either stream shows over 4g when you&aposre out, or download over wi-fi to watch later without using up your data.with the sky go app, you can watch your favourite shows or movies when you’re out and about without using up your mobile data.see our help article for tips and information.download the latest version of the sky+ app and connect to your home wi-fi. watch will automatically create your own playlist in the ‘watch now’ tab of your sky+ app. simply select the show you want to watch and it’ll stream to your device.see our sky mobile features to find out more.choose your phone and a data plan that’s right for you. we’ll let  you know when its time to upgrade.swap12 is an 18-month contract, and means you can upgrade your phone after 12 months. swap24 is a 30-month contract, so you can upgrade your phone after 24 months.you&aposll have two options:1. swap your phone for a new one and send your old one back to us.2. upgrade to a new one, but keep your old one too. the choice is yours.check out our sky help article for more information.yes. no matter which sky mobile plan you choose, you can change your mix of data, calls and texts every month. any downgrades will be effective from the following month.it’s easy to get more data any time you like by mixing up your plan, adding data from your sky piggybank, or buying a 1gb add on. 4g comes as standard and you’ll also get unlimited sky wifi at thousands of hotspots in popular places across the country. you can check your predicted network coverage in your area using our coverage checker.with roaming passport, you can now roam in more than 30 eu and eea destinations at no extra cost. and with roaming passport plus, you can use your uk data plan from abroad, in 10 of the most popular roaming destinations outside of the eu.while you&aposre in the eu/eea:outside of the eu:if you need more data while you&aposre away you’ll still be able to use data from your sky piggybank whenever you need it, and can mix up your plan at my sky.if you travel abroad and have roaming activated, you won’t need to contact us or do anything. alternatively, you can simply turn data roaming off in your phone settings if you don’t want to use it.for more information, see your roaming passport.all sky mobile customers can make calls and send texts to international numbers. you can find out about international charges in our tariff guide. after you’ve joined sky mobile, you can add our international saver to your plan and enjoy discounted rates on calls and texts to over 60 destinations. see our sky mobile features to find out more.discounted rates for calls and texts to over 60 popular international destinations (to both standard landline and mobile numbers). recurring optional extras stay on your account each month until cancelled. full details are available at sky.com/mobiletariffguide. when you choose a plan, you’ll be able to add a phone with swap – a new way to have the device you want, when you want. see our sky mobile features to find out more.yes. if you’d like to keep your existing number, just have your pac to hand (which you can get from your old provider). you’ll need to activate your sky mobile sim before transferring your number. see our help guide for more information.yes. to use your sky mobile sim in a phone bought from a different service provider, you may need to contact them first to unlock your phone.yes. sky id is your sign-in for all our online services. you&aposll need a sky id to activate your sim when it arrives and to manage your account online. if you&aposre already a sky tv customer with a sky+ box, use your existing sky id to benefit from sync.your sim comes in three different sizes – nano, micro and standard. the size you’ll need will depend on your device. if you’re not sure, check its user guide. then pop out the right size sim for your device.when you log into my sky, you’ll see all your sky products in one place. however, you’ll be billed separately for sky mobile.if you&aposre not eligible to buy a sky mobile device with a credit agreement, sky credit builder may help. sky credit builder lets you build up a payment history with sky mobile over six months, and this is taken into consideration if you re-apply to buy a device with a credit agreement.see our sky credit builder help article for more information.roll & mix: redeem data per 1gb, use within 3 years. mix: 12 month minimum term. downgrades effective month following selection. savings come from mixing down to a lower cost plan, reducing monthly costs. roll over unused data to supplement new, lower cost plan. roll & keep: redeem data per 1gb. use within 3 years. roll rewards: one reward per purchase. only available after end of first bill period. the more you save, the greater the total value of the rewards available to you.save by mixing to lower cost plan and supplementing with rolled data. downgrades effective following month. redeem data in 1gb increments.