no contract awesomenessfrom the big screen to the smallgot a burning question?burn rubber, not cash with our f1®  season ticket.watch all 21 race weekends live on sky sports across 9 months for a one-off £195 payment, that's just £5 per week.*pass auto-renews after pre-paid period at £33.99 a month, unless cancelled. no contract.2019 formula one world championship®sky sports day passpay as you go£8.99  the best sports action for 24 hours.sky sports week passpay as you go£14.997 days of the biggest events.sky sports month pass£33.99 a month*all 11 channels for a whole month on loads of devices.*pass auto-renews after pre-paid period at £33.99 a month, unless cancelled. no contract.the daily spectatorthe weekly warriorthe total fanaticthe sports fan on the gosky sports mobile month pass£5.99 a month*5 channels straight to your smartphone for a month.*pass auto-renews after pre-paid period at £5.99 a month, unless cancelled. no contract.  burn rubber, not cash with our f1 season ticket watch all 21 race weekends live on sky sports.  you'll get the entire f1® season across 9 months for a one-off £195 payment, that's just £5 per week!  after your offer period the action continues at £33.99 a month, unless cancelled.now tv sky sports f1® season ticket: one-off payment. 18+, uk only. at the end of the pre-paid period (9 months) sky sports month pass automatically renews at £33.99pm unless cancelled. offer ends 11.59pm 31 may 2019. offer available to new and existing now tv customers only. offer not available in conjunction with any other now tv offer/combo/promotion. cancel any time. now tv account set up with debit/credit card required. now tv terms apply (nowtv.com/terms). content streamed via internet (costs may apply). one sky sports pass in your account at any one time. red button and interactive services are unavailable. all live scheduling subject to change. the f1 logo, f1, formula 1, fia formula one world championship, grand prix and related marks are trademarks of formula one licensing bv, a formula 1 company. all rights reserved.choose a sky sports passchoose a sky sports pass and only pay for the days you want with a day or week pass, or get a whole month of live sport with the month pass. plus if you're watching on the go, get 5 sky sports channels on your smartphone with a sky sports mobile month pass. that's the biggest live matches and events from just £5.99.mobile month pass channelsday, week & month pass channels5 sky sports channels on your smartphonewith the sky sports mobile month pass you can get unlimited access to 5 channels, including sky sports premier league.all 11 sky sports channels available on day, week and month passget yours and start watching instantly from £8.99.*watch these 5 channels on the sky sports mobile month pass. all 11 channels available on a sky sports day, week and month pass.explore our range of top sportsno matter what your favourite sport is, sky sports has got you covered. find out more about the top sports you can watch when you get a pass.footballrugbycricketgolfhow to get your sky sports passit couldn't be easier to start watching sky sports. simply choose a day, week, month or mobile month pass, complete the sign up steps and you'll be up and running in minutes. step 1pick your sports passstep 2complete your sign upstep 3 start watching instantly. 