
n mcginn (47),a considine (63),s cosgrove (67, 73 pen)
s dobbie (50)

aberdeen vs q of south
scottish cup 5th rnd
3:30pm sunday 10th february

            pittodrie                            
                (att: 7857)                







last updated:
                
                    18/04/19 6:20am                

                        match ends, aberdeen 4, queen of the south 1.                    
                        second half ends, aberdeen 4, queen of the south 1.                    
                        attempt missed. lewis ferguson (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.                    
                        attempt saved. lewis ferguson (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.                    
                        foul by graeme shinnie (aberdeen).                    
                        andy stirling (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        lewis ferguson (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by lyndon dykes (queen of the south).                    
                        sam cosgrove (aberdeen) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.                    
                        foul by sam cosgrove (aberdeen).                    
                        andy stirling (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        attempt saved. lyndon dykes (queen of the south) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner.                    
                        substitution, aberdeen. james wilson replaces gary mackay-steven.                    
                        attempt missed. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) right footed shot from very close range misses to the right.                    
                        substitution, queen of the south. fraser aird replaces scott mercer.                    
                        substitution, aberdeen. michael devlin replaces shaleum logan because of an injury.                    
                        delay in match shaleum logan (aberdeen) because of an injury.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 4, queen of the south 1. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner.                    
                        penalty conceded by andy stirling (queen of the south) with a hand ball in the penalty area.                    
                        lewis ferguson (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        foul by lyndon dykes (queen of the south).                    
                        substitution, queen of the south. ian mcgrath replaces nicky low.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 3, queen of the south 1. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) header from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. assisted by niall mcginn with a cross.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by andy stirling.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 2, queen of the south 1. andrew considine (aberdeen) header from the centre of the box to the high centre of the goal. assisted by niall mcginn with a cross following a set piece situation.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by barry maguire.                    
                        lewis ferguson (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by lyndon dykes (queen of the south).                    
                        sam cosgrove (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by barry maguire (queen of the south).                    
                        foul by lewis ferguson (aberdeen).                    
                        lyndon dykes (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        attempt blocked. stephen dobbie (queen of the south) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked.                    
                        niall mcginn (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by kyle jacobs (queen of the south).                    
                        attempt saved. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.                    
                        foul by graeme shinnie (aberdeen).                    
                        jordan marshall (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 1, queen of the south 1. stephen dobbie (queen of the south) right footed shot from outside the box to the top left corner.                    
                        attempt blocked. niall mcginn (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 1, queen of the south 0. niall mcginn (aberdeen) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the high centre of the goal.                    
                        substitution, aberdeen. niall mcginn replaces stevie may.                    
                        second half begins aberdeen 0, queen of the south 0.                    
                        first half ends, aberdeen 0, queen of the south 0.                    
                        attempt saved. max lowe (aberdeen) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top right corner.                    
                        attempt blocked. graeme shinnie (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.                    
                        attempt blocked. stevie may (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.                    
                        sam cosgrove (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by barry maguire (queen of the south).                    
                        attempt saved. kyle jacobs (queen of the south) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.                    
                        foul by graeme shinnie (aberdeen).                    
                        lyndon dykes (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        attempt missed. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high following a set piece situation.                    
                        nicky low (queen of the south) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.                    
                        gary mackay-steven (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the right wing.                    
                        foul by nicky low (queen of the south).                    
                        corner,  queen of the south. conceded by joe lewis.                    
                        attempt saved. jordan marshall (queen of the south) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner.                    
                        foul by graeme shinnie (aberdeen).                    
                        lyndon dykes (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by sam cosgrove (aberdeen).                    
                        lyndon dykes (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        delay over. they are ready to continue.                    
                        corner,  queen of the south. conceded by andrew considine.                    
                        foul by sam cosgrove (aberdeen).                    
                        scott mercer (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        sam cosgrove (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by callum fordyce (queen of the south).                    
                        attempt saved. gary mackay-steven (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.                    
                        andrew considine (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by michael doyle (queen of the south).                    
                        foul by stevie may (aberdeen).                    
                        jordan marshall (queen of the south) wins a free kick on the right wing.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by andy stirling.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by jordan marshall.                    
                        hand ball by andy stirling (queen of the south).                    
                        graeme shinnie (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by kyle jacobs (queen of the south).                    
                        lyndon dykes (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by lewis ferguson (aberdeen).                    
                        attempt saved. greg stewart (aberdeen) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.                    
                        foul by greg stewart (aberdeen).                    
                        jordan marshall (queen of the south) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        attempt missed. shaleum logan (aberdeen) header from the right side of the box is close, but misses the top left corner.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by scott mercer.                    
                        first half begins.                    
                        lineups are announced and players are warming up.                    



      ©2019 sky uk
    