
l ferguson (32),s cosgrove (77)
d nazon (20 pen),k mcallister (61)

aberdeen vs st mirren
scots prem
3:00pm saturday 16th february

            pittodrie                            
                (att: 14701)                







last updated:
                
                    18/04/19 6:20am                

                        match ends, aberdeen 2, st. mirren 2.                    
                        second half ends, aberdeen 2, st. mirren 2.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by cameron macpherson.                    
                        attempt missed. greg stewart (aberdeen) left footed shot from outside the box is too high.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by laurentiu corbu.                    
                        attempt missed. graeme shinnie (aberdeen) left footed shot from outside the box is too high.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by cameron macpherson.                    
                        foul by gary mackay-steven (aberdeen).                    
                        cameron macpherson (st. mirren) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        attempt saved. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.                    
                        foul by sam cosgrove (aberdeen).                    
                        jack baird (st. mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        attempt missed. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.                    
                        michael devlin (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by simeon jackson (st. mirren).                    
                        substitution, aberdeen. connor mclennan replaces niall mcginn.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 2, st. mirren 2. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. assisted by graeme shinnie with a cross.                    
                        attempt missed. brad lyons (st. mirren) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.                    
                        attempt missed. gary mackay-steven (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box is too high.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by mihai popescu.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by václav hladky.                    
                        attempt saved. greg stewart (aberdeen) left footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.                    
                        attempt missed. simeon jackson (st. mirren) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right.                    
                        substitution, aberdeen. james wilson replaces max lowe.                    
                        graeme shinnie (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        foul by ryan flynn (st. mirren).                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 1, st. mirren 2. kyle mcallister (st. mirren) left footed shot from the right side of the box to the top left corner.                    
                        substitution, st. mirren. greg tansey replaces anton ferdinand because of an injury.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by mihai popescu.                    
                        delay in match anton ferdinand (st. mirren) because of an injury.                    
                        attempt blocked. graeme shinnie (aberdeen) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.                    
                        attempt missed. lewis ferguson (aberdeen) left footed shot from outside the box is too high.                    
                        lewis ferguson (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the right wing.                    
                        foul by brad lyons (st. mirren).                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by laurentiu corbu.                    
                        greg stewart (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        foul by kyle mcallister (st. mirren).                    
                        attempt missed. brad lyons (st. mirren) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.                    
                        second half begins aberdeen 1, st. mirren 1.                    
                        substitution, st. mirren. simeon jackson replaces duckens nazon.                    
                        substitution, st. mirren. laurentiu corbu replaces mateo muzek.                    
                        first half ends, aberdeen 1, st. mirren 1.                    
                        gary mackay-steven (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by mihai popescu (st. mirren).                    
                        lewis ferguson (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by duckens nazon (st. mirren).                    
                        substitution, aberdeen. stephen gleeson replaces tommie hoban because of an injury.                    
                        delay over. they are ready to continue.                    
                        delay in match tommie hoban (aberdeen) because of an injury.                    
                        foul by graeme shinnie (aberdeen).                    
                        ryan flynn (st. mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        graeme shinnie (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by brad lyons (st. mirren).                    
                        foul by greg stewart (aberdeen).                    
                        ryan flynn (st. mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        attempt missed. niall mcginn (aberdeen) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high.                    
                        attempt blocked. duckens nazon (st. mirren) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 1, st. mirren 1. lewis ferguson (aberdeen) header from the right side of the six yard box to the bottom right corner. assisted by andrew considine.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by jack baird.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by paul mcginn.                    
                        attempt blocked. niall mcginn (aberdeen) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.                    
                        graeme shinnie (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        foul by ryan flynn (st. mirren).                    
                        greg stewart (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the right wing.                    
                        foul by mihai popescu (st. mirren).                    
                        delay over. they are ready to continue.                    
                        delay in match greg stewart (aberdeen) because of an injury.                    
                        attempt saved. greg stewart (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.                    
                        foul by lewis ferguson (aberdeen).                    
                        cameron macpherson (st. mirren) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        duckens nazon (st. mirren) is shown the yellow card.                    
                        tommie hoban (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by duckens nazon (st. mirren).                    
                        sam cosgrove (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by brad lyons (st. mirren).                    
                        foul by michael devlin (aberdeen).                    
                        kyle mcallister (st. mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 0, st. mirren 1. duckens nazon (st. mirren) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom left corner.                    
                        penalty conceded by sam cosgrove (aberdeen) after a foul in the penalty area.                    
                        penalty st. mirren. paul mcginn draws a foul in the penalty area.                    
                        corner,  st. mirren. conceded by andrew considine.                    
                        attempt blocked. duckens nazon (st. mirren) right footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked.                    
                        brad lyons (st. mirren) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.                    
                        gary mackay-steven (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by brad lyons (st. mirren).                    
                        graeme shinnie (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by mihai popescu (st. mirren).                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by mihai popescu.                    
                        attempt blocked. greg stewart (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.                    
                        attempt missed. lewis ferguson (aberdeen) right footed shot from the right side of the six yard box is close, but misses to the right.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by ryan flynn.                    
                        foul by mateo muzek (st. mirren).                    
                        gary mackay-steven (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the right wing.                    
                        attempt blocked. niall mcginn (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.                    
                        corner,  st. mirren. conceded by max lowe.                    
                        corner,  st. mirren. conceded by gary mackay-steven.                    
                        ryan flynn (st. mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by lewis ferguson (aberdeen).                    
                        first half begins.                    
                        lineups are announced and players are warming up.                    



      ©2019 sky uk
    