

g oakley (34),m miller (59)

aberdeen vs hamilton
scots prem
7:45pm wednesday 27th february

            pittodrie                            
                (att: 12468)                







last updated:
                
                    18/04/19 6:20am                

                        match ends, aberdeen 0, hamilton academical 2.                    
                        second half ends, aberdeen 0, hamilton academical 2.                    
                        mickel miller (hamilton academical) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.                    
                        scott mckenna (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by mickel miller (hamilton academical).                    
                        attempt missed. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by ziggy gordon.                    
                        substitution, hamilton academical. david mcmillan replaces tony andreu.                    
                        attempt blocked. greg stewart (aberdeen) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked.                    
                        substitution, hamilton academical. alex penny replaces scott martin.                    
                        foul by stevie may (aberdeen).                    
                        lennard sowah (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        attempt missed. connor mclennan (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by lennard sowah.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by alexander gogic.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by alexander gogic.                    
                        attempt missed. connor mclennan (aberdeen) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the right.                    
                        sam cosgrove (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by delphin tshiembe (hamilton academical).                    
                        foul by lewis ferguson (aberdeen).                    
                        george oakley (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by tony andreu.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by lennard sowah.                    
                        michael devlin (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        foul by george oakley (hamilton academical).                    
                        substitution, aberdeen. stevie may replaces dominic ball.                    
                        foul by andrew considine (aberdeen).                    
                        george oakley (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by michael devlin (aberdeen).                    
                        george oakley (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        michael devlin (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by george oakley (hamilton academical).                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by aaron mcgowan.                    
                        hand ball by lennard sowah (hamilton academical).                    
                        attempt blocked. mickel miller (hamilton academical) left footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked.                    
                        attempt missed. andrew considine (aberdeen) header from the centre of the box misses to the right.                    
                        connor mclennan (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the right wing.                    
                        foul by dougie imrie (hamilton academical).                    
                        lewis ferguson (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by george oakley (hamilton academical).                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by scott martin.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by dougie imrie.                    
                        attempt blocked. lewis ferguson (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.                    
                        aaron mcgowan (hamilton academical) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.                    
                        niall mcginn (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by aaron mcgowan (hamilton academical).                    
                        corner,  hamilton academical. conceded by andrew considine.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 0, hamilton academical 2. mickel miller (hamilton academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. assisted by lennard sowah.                    
                        dominic ball (aberdeen) hits the bar with a right footed shot from the centre of the box.                    
                        attempt blocked. graeme shinnie (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.                    
                        attempt missed. graeme shinnie (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.                    
                        foul by andrew considine (aberdeen).                    
                        mickel miller (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        substitution, hamilton academical. dougie imrie replaces darian mackinnon because of an injury.                    
                        dominic ball (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        foul by ziggy gordon (hamilton academical).                    
                        hand ball by greg stewart (aberdeen).                    
                        attempt blocked. dominic ball (aberdeen) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.                    
                        delay over. they are ready to continue.                    
                        delay in match darian mackinnon (hamilton academical) because of an injury.                    
                        second half begins aberdeen 0, hamilton academical 1.                    
                        first half ends, aberdeen 0, hamilton academical 1.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by gary woods.                    
                        attempt saved. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.                    
                        attempt blocked. lewis ferguson (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.                    
                        dominic ball (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by tony andreu (hamilton academical).                    
                        attempt saved. andrew considine (aberdeen) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.                    
                        corner,  aberdeen. conceded by darian mackinnon.                    
                        lewis ferguson (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by scott martin (hamilton academical).                    
                        attempt missed. sam cosgrove (aberdeen) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.                    
                        graeme shinnie (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by darian mackinnon (hamilton academical).                    
                        delay over. they are ready to continue.                    
                        delay in match alexander gogic (hamilton academical) because of an injury.                    
                        goal!  aberdeen 0, hamilton academical 1. george oakley (hamilton academical) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right to the top left corner. assisted by ziggy gordon.                    
                        corner,  hamilton academical. conceded by michael devlin.                    
                        corner,  hamilton academical. conceded by graeme shinnie.                    
                        attempt missed. tony andreu (hamilton academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left.                    
                        attempt blocked. greg stewart (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.                    
                        foul by connor mclennan (aberdeen).                    
                        lennard sowah (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        greg stewart (aberdeen) hits the right post with a header from the centre of the box.                    
                        michael devlin (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        foul by mickel miller (hamilton academical).                    
                        connor mclennan (aberdeen) wins a free kick on the right wing.                    
                        foul by lennard sowah (hamilton academical).                    
                        attempt missed. dominic ball (aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.                    
                        connor mclennan (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by ziggy gordon (hamilton academical).                    
                        foul by lewis ferguson (aberdeen).                    
                        lennard sowah (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        george oakley (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by lewis ferguson (aberdeen).                    
                        greg stewart (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        foul by lennard sowah (hamilton academical).                    
                        corner,  hamilton academical. conceded by joe lewis.                    
                        attempt saved. mickel miller (hamilton academical) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.                    
                        substitution, aberdeen. michael devlin replaces max lowe because of an injury.                    
                        delay in match max lowe (aberdeen) because of an injury.                    
                        attempt saved. lewis ferguson (aberdeen) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner.                    
                        foul by max lowe (aberdeen).                    
                        mickel miller (hamilton academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half.                    
                        andrew considine (aberdeen) wins a free kick in the attacking half.                    
                        foul by george oakley (hamilton academical).                    
                        andrew considine (aberdeen) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.                    
                        foul by andrew considine (aberdeen).                    
                        mickel miller (hamilton academical) wins a free kick on the left wing.                    
                        corner,  hamilton academical. conceded by dominic ball.                    
                        first half begins.                    
                        lineups are announced and players are warming up.                    



      ©2019 sky uk
    