  gov.uk uses cookies to make the site simpler. find out more about cookies or hide this message
the best place to find government services and informationsimpler, clearer, fasterincludes eligibility, appeals, tax credits and universal creditparenting, civil partnerships, divorce and lasting power of attorneytools and guidance for businessesincludes giving birth, fostering, adopting, benefits for children, childcare and schoolsvoting, community participation, life in the uk, international projectslegal processes, courts and the policeincludes carers, your rights, benefits and the equality actincludes vehicle tax, mot and driving licencesincludes student loans, admissions and apprenticeshipsincludes pay, contracts and hiringincludes flooding, recycling and wildlifeowning or renting and council servicesincludes debt and self assessmentincludes renewing passports and travel advice by countryvisas, asylum and sponsorshipincludes holidays and finding a job
                the websites of all government
                departments and many other agencies and public bodies have
                been merged into gov.uk.
              
                here you can see all news and communications,
                statistics
                and
                consultations.
              
                find out how government services are performing
                and how satisfied users are.
              
                  read the withdrawal agreement and political declaration on the future relationship between the uk and the eu.
                
                  the uk is leaving the eu. find out more.
                find out about the support available.check the dates for bank holidays in england, wales, scotland and northern ireland.don’t include personal or financial information like your national insurance number or credit card details.to help us improve gov.uk, we’d like to know more about your visit today. we’ll send you a link to a feedback form. it will take only 2 minutes to fill in. don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.open government licenceall content is available under the open government licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated