
live on





j wallace (72)

derby vs millwall
sky bet ch'ship
7:45pm wednesday 20th february

            pride park stadium                            
                (att: 24907)                







last updated: 20/02/19 11:09pmjed wallace's second-half strike gave millwall a vital 1-0 victory against derby in the sky bet championship on wednesday.it was a mostly tepid affair at pride park with millwall frustrating frank lampard's side for much of the game, and wallace's 72nd-minute goal was enough to hand the lions the win.the away victory is millwall's second of the sky bet championship season, putting them five points clear of the relegation places.derby remain seventh - two points behind sixth-placed bristol city - and four ahead of fierce rivals nottingham forest, who they face on monday evening, live on sky sports.derby: roos (5), bogle (5), keogh (6), tomori (6), cole (7), bryson (6), huddlestone (6), wilson (5), holmes (7), waghorn (6), marriott (5).subs used: king (4), jozefzoon (4), nugent (n/a).millwall: archer (6), romeo (7), hutchinson (6), cooper (6), m wallace (5), ferguson (6), leonard (6), williams (6), marshall (5), wallace (7), gregory (6).subs used: elliott (5), tunnicliffe (n/a).man of the match: mahlon romeo.the opening half was a quiet affair, with the first sight of goal not coming until the 22nd minute. duane holmes darted through a cluster of players before cutting the ball back for martyn waghorn. he then strode towards goal but his touch was heavy and sent the ball wide of the post.eleven minutes later, and waghorn went close again. tom huddlestone's fierce shot from range ricocheted off a millwall body, which waghorn then tried to guide home with an overhead kick, but could not send it goalwards.both sides made two changes. derby bought in ashley cole - who made his first derby start - and jack marriott for scott malone and david nugent. millwall replaced alex pearce and aiden o'brien with ben marshall and shaun hutchinson.derby began well in the second half, and had two chances in the opening five minutes. richard keogh put a holmes corner just wide of the post before jack marriott scuffed a shot under pressure from jake cooper after a wonderful ball over the top from fikayo tomori.millwall had their first sight of goal in the 56th minute as jed wallace played a cross in from the left-hand side that grazed the top of the crossbar before going out the other side of the box.they then took the lead in the 72nd minute with their first real break of the game. shane ferguson set wallace away down the field with a great through ball, with the forward eventually slotting home underneath the body of derby goalkeeper kelle roos.derby could have snatched an equaliser in the second minute of four added on. tomori headed an effort towards goal, forcing the first save of the game from jordan archer, before a shot from florian jozefzoon was blocked as millwall saw the game out.derby manager frank lampard: "there were no surprises, millwall are very organised and we had a load of the ball and lots of possession."but we weren't quick enough with it at times and we didn't have enough imagination in our game to break them down and they scored with their only shot and only attack."so it was a culmination of us not being bright enough on the ball and then having a lapse that gave them a goal, but it's a game where if you're not at your best you should draw 0-0."i wouldn't be surprised at anything in this league but i thought we would cause them more problems, but we didn't create enough."millwall manager neil harris: "we knew we were coming up against a very talented derby side who have an excellent home record, so we knew we would have to be disciplined and organised because of the ability they have to open you up."first and foremost i want to praise the team's defensive ability because i think the 93rd minute was their first effort on goal. it's certainly one of the best away performances of my time in charge."the best praise i can give my players is that was a very, very impressive millwall performance. any clean sheet at the level we play at is a huge bonus. we built our foundation last year on it and we've tried in the second half of the season to get that mentality back again."it was a good performance from romeo at both ends as he played the wing-back role perfectly. he did his job as derby tried to find their way through but also got forward well. he was the most impressive millwall player on wednesday evening.next up for derby is one of their biggest games of the season as they travel to nottingham forest on monday, live on sky sports. millwall host preston in the sky bet championship on saturday.                    predict 6 correct scores for your chance to win â£250k.                



      ©2019 sky uk
    