we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yessenior scribbler at the hockey news. worst player on the ice. drink way too much diet coke. the time is nigh.are you sure you want to view these tweets? viewing tweets won't unblock @thnkencampbellthe tampa bay lightning obviously won't win the stanley cup this year. they might not even next year. but if they resist the temptation to blow things up, they will. just like washington and detroit did. my blog.https://bit.ly/2ukvlan don’t get the indignation over the beating ovechkin administered to svechnikov. what do people expect? as long as the game tolerates and condones fighting, these things are bound to happen. the hockey world has a choice...and it has to deal with  ramifications of that choice.the line of freddie gauthier between tyler ennis and trevor moore has been toronto's best unit in the first period. that is not good news.can also confirm, cayden primeau is the 3rd goalie going to the worlds for usa, as first reported by @thnkencampbell. #habs #montreal #canadiens #mtl #nhlpic.twitter.com/cgjawpvj0nwatching mark stone and erik karlsson play tonight, ottawa senators gm pierre dorion must be the most conflicted man in north america at the moment.can we now finally dispense with the ridiculous notion that the stone-stastny-pacioretty unit is not the vegas golden knights' second line?in december, the iihf changed its rules in time for this year's men's world championship that will see the two teams play 3-on-3 overtime - with no shootout - if the gold medal game is tied. why was the same rule not made for women's hockey?minnesota-duluth won its second straight frozen four championship last night. here's why the bulldogs could become the first school in more than 65 years and just the second in history to win three in a row.https://bit.ly/2ubaq4s tampa bay lightning coach todd richards was in buffalo tonight to see his son, justin, win a national championship.i get the sense they could have played this game non-stop for another week and umass still wouldn't have scored a goal.hey nhl gms. if you're looking for your team to become a defensive juggernaut, hire umd coach scott sandelin. that was as dominant a performance as i've seen since the canadian olympic team in sochi.that's a wrap on the #frozenfour. minnesota-duluth wins 3-0 for its second straight national championship. as my pal @hockeybroph would say, "of all the hockey games i've seen, this was one of them." not a great game from an entertainment standpoint, but a great team win for umd.12 minutes into the second period and umass just had its first grade a chance of the game. #frozenfourmy limited four-period viewing of minnesota-duluth leaves me with the impression that this team is very, very good at making its opponents look ordinary.filip lindberg, who backed up ukko-pekka luukkonen for finland at the world juniors, has kept umass in this game. without him, this might already be a rout.minnesota-duluth outplaying umass by a wide, wide margin in the early game of the #frozenfour championship game.hi twitterverse. if anyone from toronto is going to the #frozenfour championship game in buffalo tonight and is heading back after the game, i'm looking for a ride. i'll gladly pay for the transportation.hobey baker winner and the hockey news' no. 1 prospect makar ready to win a national championship, then head to colorado for the playoffs, writes @thnkencampbellhttps://thehockeynews.com/news/article/hobey-baker-winner-makar-ready-to-win-national-championship-then-head-to-colorado-for-the-playoffs …despite the fact the avalanche risk having cale makar for only a couple of games this season and will have to protect him in the expansion draft, they seem intent on signing the hobey baker winner immediately after he plays in the frozen four championship game saturday night.there’s a very good chance that canadiens prospect cayden primeau will be named as the no. 3 goalie for team usa at the world championship.

          @thnkencampbell hasn't tweeted yet.
      back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  