
                                                                                                                            mauricio pochettino is a genius and victor wanyama is a hero, but pep guardiolais is still addicted to the light that blinds him.                                                                                                                    
                                                                how many players can emerge from the depths moussa sissoko was occupying at tottenham? not many...                                    
                                                                ...and the opposition are premiership sunderland. gazza is injured but can sir les step up?                                    
                                                                here are the bald bastions of the game - chosen by the good folk over at football ramble...                                    
                                                                fleetwood manager joey barton allegedly confronted barnsley boss daniel stendel; a man has been arrested.                                    
                                                                we have your reactions to manchester united's predictable defeat in barcelona....                                    
                                                                all the heart, running and bloody tallness in the world cannot level the playing field against barcelona.                                    
                                                                ten years on, what has happened to arsenal's fa youth cup winners from 2009? spoiler: none are at arsenal.                                    
                                                                manchester united are targeting two defenders, two midfielders and a forward, according to the latest reports.                                    
                                                                "we have to show some humility as to what we're actually witnessing," says neville of five "outstanding" players.                                    
                                                                we've got ryan sessegnon, gareth bale and eden hazard. it's a gossip greatest hits.                                    
                                                                can all the other clubs please just agree to leave this lot at ajax for a while? they're a lot of bloody fun.                                    
                                                                "coutinho is a great player, he has balls," said clement lenglet, while sergio busquets was also asked the question.                                    
                                                                england have left jofra archer out of their cricket world cup squad, but not really.                                    
                                                                ashley young was subjected to racist abuse on social media after man united's defeat. f***ing hell.                                    
                                                                nicky butt was arrested on suspicion of assaulting a woman in the early hours of tuesday morning.                                    
                                                                in november 1995, graeme le saux (!) decided to take on david batty. this p*ssed all over dyer v bowyer.                                    
                                                                seven teams. six games. only four will survive. it’s the la liga relegation battle.                                    
                                                                pep guardiola believes liverpool "deserve to be champion" after an incredible season. but...                                    
                                                                "i am sorry, sometimes it is really strange, but there is one football question i don't answer."                                    
                                                                antonio valencia, stephen ward and ashley young were on this list last year. they were so close this time around.                                    
                                                                paul pogba has two goals and zero assists in eight games after scoring nine times and assisting seven beforehand.                                    
                                                                rio ferdinand reckons matthijs de ligt, not dinos mavropanos, is "the best young centre-half on the planet".                                    
                                                                "manchester united made a mistake i think, tactically." let ruud gullit explain what ole gunnar solskjaer got wrong.                                    
                                                                "it is good that people like ronaldinho think you have the quality to win. that increases our belief."                                    
                                                                gary neville says liverpool "won't let [barcelona] off the hook" like manchester united did. but who'd go through?                                    
                                                                how surprising that marco silva thinks one of his everton players is better than their direct liverpool counterpart.                                    
                                                                are liverpool "the best team in the world" at times? jurgen klopp and james milner offer their thoughts.                                    
                                                                still trying to remember the name of the fella stood next to jurgen klopp? he's not made a bench yet this season.                                    
                                                                solskjaer unsurprisingly sees barcelona winning the champions league. they might have liverpool next...                                    
                                                                neil warnock says "there were so many pundits" who wrote cardiff off. yet they're still "alive and kicking".                                    update your browser to view this website correctly.update my browser now×