we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yessenior writer and prospect expert for the hockey news. here to thrash your roy score.are you sure you want to view these tweets? viewing tweets won't unblock @thnryankennedyhere it is, me on the wingate bike at the ohl combine: https://youtu.be/ncebynonxgi  if it looks like i'm struggling, it's because i am...how do you forget where brad marchand is?almost the entire lower bowl in nationwide arena is standing for the third period of #cbj - #gobolts.prospect need to know: ten players who have a chance to raise their draft stock at the world under-18shttps://bit.ly/2udvyhw if you want to see our podcast while you hear it, you can check it out on youtube starting this week. here's our monday episode:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=unpflweuc3i&feature=youtu.be …[unlocked] cole caufield vs youngstown | mar 30 2019
#2019nhldrafthttps://prospectshifts.com/2019/04/cole-caufield-vs-youngstown-mar-30-2019/ …no kempny, no problem? with no chance of the defenseman's return from a torn hamstring, the capitals are succeeding with a different look on the back end, writes @thnryankennedyhttps://thehockeynews.com/news/article/no-kempny-no-problem-washington-pushes-on-without-key-defenseman …"we can do whatever. we’re the team to beat.” the umd bulldogs are back-to-back national champions, and some are already setting their sights on making it three in a row next season, writes @thnkencampbellhttps://thehockeynews.com/news/article/minnesota-duluth-bulldogs-continue-college-dominance-with-convincing-national-championship-victory …frozen four: @thnryankennedy on umass hero and 2019 draft sleeper marc del gaizohttps://bit.ly/2ghdf6v i like how the same refs who awarded three five-minute power plays for headshots during regulation have all of a sudden decided everyone is playing clean in overtime...habs pick brett stapley dominating on faceoffs for denver, going 5-1 through two periods. he's been a dangerous threat with the puck for the pios, toocale makar is showing exactly why he’s the no. 1 prospect in this year’s future watch edition. picture what nicklas lidstrom would have looked like as a college player and you’ll get a good indication of his impact.pic.twitter.com/kzc3vhrc4fumass's puck movement on the power play is just obscene. minutemen up 2-1, makar with the set-upit's definitely a umass crowd here for game 2.one of my only gripes with ncaa hockey is that like, 80 percent of teams wear maroon or burgundy jerseys. we need washington, oregon and north carolina to go division 1 asap just to chip away at the ratio.minnesota-duluth will play for another national title, final score 4-1 (two empty-netters). nhl teams have to be looking at scott sandelin for a head coaching job.huge 5-on-3 kill by duluth; providence may rue the missed opportunity to take a leadfirst period faves: cole koepke (tb) and scott perunovich (stl) from minnesota-duluth, jacob bryson (buf) and michael callahan (ari) from providence college. no scorein buffalo tonight for the #frozenfour , excited for semi-final action kicking off with providence and umdryan kennedy retweeted michael segalovi woke up the ying yang twins at a hotel in new zealand by talking really loudly in the hallway (it was late morning)https://twitter.com/mikesegalov/status/1114997594562945024 …ryan kennedy added,dale hunter confirmed he is coach of the 2020 canadian world junior team.

          @thnryankennedy hasn't tweeted yet.
      back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  