down the years, arsenal have fielded their fair share of pointless answers in the league cup. just this season, you could find a young defender by the name of julio pleguezuelo featuring against blackpool. is this an arsenal game or pro evo from back in the day? there have been others, of course. jeff reine-adélaïde, who may or may not sound like a true detective character, ben sheaf (no, me neith...there is an unwritten adage often heard within heated conversations before leeds united games that start in pubs and spill over onto the public transport systems of west yorkshire: “if pablo plays well then leeds will play well.”  this should come as no surprise. pablo hernández won the club’s player of the year award for the 2017/18 season and is well on course to repeat the feat agai...perhaps no player has commanded more transfer column inches this season than nicolas pépé. all your favourite buzzwords have been used. arsenal were in ‘pole position’, then came tottenham hotspur looking to ‘gazump’ their rivals. chelsea ‘stole a march’ on manchester united, who only expressed interest. other ‘noted admirers’ include manchester city...there was little for chelsea fans to enjoy during their defeat against liverpool at anfield. the game was a sobering experience, a reminder of just how far the blues have fallen in the past two seasons. yet there was one, albeit rather small, glimmer of light in the darkness. the performance of ruben loftus-cheek. the 23-year-old has long been touted as a star in the making. a player who chelsea c...down the years, arsenal have fielded their fair share of pointless answers in the league cup. just this season, you could find a young defender by the name of julio pleguezuelo featuring against blackpool. is this an arsenal game or pro evo from back in the day? there have been others, of course. jeff reine-adélaïde, who may or may not sound like a true detective character, ben sheaf (no, me neith...there is an unwritten adage often heard within heated conversations before leeds united games that start in pubs and spill over onto the public transport systems of west yorkshire: “if pablo plays well then leeds will play well.”  this should come as no surprise. pablo hernández won the club’s player of the year award for the 2017/18 season and is well on course to repeat the feat agai...perhaps no player has commanded more transfer column inches this season than nicolas pépé. all your favourite buzzwords have been used. arsenal were in ‘pole position’, then came tottenham hotspur looking to ‘gazump’ their rivals. chelsea ‘stole a march’ on manchester united, who only expressed interest. other ‘noted admirers’ include manchester city...there was little for chelsea fans to enjoy during their defeat against liverpool at anfield. the game was a sobering experience, a reminder of just how far the blues have fallen in the past two seasons. yet there was one, albeit rather small, glimmer of light in the darkness. the performance of ruben loftus-cheek. the 23-year-old has long been touted as a star in the making. a player who chelsea c...as the 2018/19 season approaches its crescendo, premier league clubs will already be plotting their summer recruitment moves. the title is yet to be decided, top-four places are still up for grabs and the relegation battle rages on, but all 20 sides in england’s top flight must be thinking ahead and eyeing key additions to make them stronger next term. here, we’ve picked out eight la l...there’s something about professional sportspeople that, when you get a glimpse into their soul, you understand why you, a regular person, are not a professional sportsperson. for harry kane, that moment came when he swore on his daughter’s life that he got a touch on a goal that it really didn’t seem like he got a touch on. to people with regular day jobs, that might sound extreme. for kane, it’s...after a couple of seasons of bizarre, expensive and ultimately poor business in the transfer market, everton seemingly made up for lost time last summer. as well as richarlison, bernard and lucas digne becoming key figures on the left, loanees andré gomes and kurt zouma have impressed too. and when the current campaign comes to an end the french centre-back, with a transfer ban hanging over his pa...the cherries, like the fruit, it seems, are only in season for a short period of the year. bournemouth were ripe for top-seven contention for the first couple of months of the premier league campaign but have been slightly ‘off’ ever since. after ten games eddie howe’s side were sixth. they were two points off fourth, five ahead of tenth, and 15 away from the relegation places. f...football has changed around juan mata. it seems a lifetime ago the gifted spanish conjuror was named chelsea’s player of the year in back-to-back seasons, before becoming manchester united‘s club-record signing in january 2014, at a cost of £37.1million. but even then, the writing was on the wall. mata is a wonderful footballer, of that there is no doubt. he is intelligent in his movem...newcastle united are, according to reports in germany, one of several sides interested in a summer move for nürnberg midfielder patrick erras. the 24-year-old has started just seven bundesliga games this term for the german club, who sit in the relegation zone with six games to play and are set to make an immediate return to the second tier. bild claims the defensive midfielder could be available...conqueror of real madrid, tormentor of juventus, just 22 years old and one of the key creative forces behind ajax’s run to the last eight of the champions league, david neres‘ star is on the rise. continental success is a double-edged sword for clubs like ajax these days; over-performing sides from outside of europe’s established major leagues are liable to be dismantled by the b...