paul merson says tottenham will reach the champions league final after battling to a famous aggregate win at man city. paul merson believes man city are "one bad game away from a bad season" following their dramatic champions league exit against tottenham.charlie nicholas delivers his predictions for thursday's europa league quarter-final second-leg ties involving arsenal and chelsea.jamie carragher assesses sadio mane, comparing him to john barnes and reveals who he would rather lose for the run in - mane or mohamed salah.gary neville says ole gunnar solskjaer is learning more about his manchester united players now the honeymoon is over.is this paul pogba's best season for goals? are bournemouth set to break a premier league record? martin knows.graeme souness believes raheem sterling should be given the player of the year award - even if he thinks the man city winger should score more goals.players from nine sides made it into phil babb's premier league team of the week. who's on the list and why?should newcastle be doing better in the premier league? and how big are they as a club in 2019? jamie carragher and gary neville debate.who is paul merson predicting to win when liverpool host chelsea and man city face crystal palace on super sunday?david prutton returns with his sky bet efl predictions ahead of the weekend fixtures, but who is he tipping for victory?ole gunnar solskjaer is preparing for his toughest test in management yet. but how did the journey begin? gary neville remembers...is mo salah the fastest to 50 premier league goals? what's the record for the most direct free- kicks scored in a season? martin knows...charlie nicholas' european predictions: how will arsenal and chelsea get on in their europa league quarter-final, first-leg ties on thursday...jamie carragher has compared chelsea's fight to retain eden hazard to when barcelona came calling for luis suarez.gary neville questions whether man utd have the correct people in place in their recruitment team to help ole gunnar solskjaer get the right business done. david prutton returns with his sky bet efl predictions ahead of the midweek fixtures, but who is he tipping for victory?jamie carragher insists the introduction of jordan henderson and james milner was hugely key to liverpool’s 3-1 win at southampton.gary neville said he would not be surprised if both liverpool and manchester city dropped points in the run in, but believes a "composed" liverpool are well placed.paul merson has warned title rivals man city and liverpool that any mistakes they make during the run in will be remembered forever.



      ©2019 sky uk
    