no contract awesomenessfrom the big screen to the smallgot a burning question?watch sky sports onlinewatch all the biggest matches and events on sky sports. starting from just £5.99.2019 formula one world championship®sky sports day passpay as you go£8.99  the best sports action for 24 hours.sky sports week passpay as you go£14.997 days of the biggest events.sky sports month pass£33.99 a month*all 11 channels for a whole month on loads of devices.*pass auto-renews after pre-paid period at £33.99 a month, unless cancelled. no contract.the daily spectatorthe weekly warriorthe total fanaticthe sports fan on the gosky sports mobile month pass£5.99 a month*5 channels straight to your smartphone for a month.*pass auto-renews after pre-paid period at £5.99 a month, unless cancelled. no contract.  burn rubber, not cash with our f1 season ticket watch all 21 race weekends live on sky sports.  you'll get the entire f1® season across 9 months for a one-off £195 payment, that's just £5 per week!  after your offer period the action continues at £33.99 a month, unless cancelled.now tv sky sports f1® season ticket: one-off payment. 18+, uk only. at the end of the pre-paid period (9 months) sky sports month pass automatically renews at £33.99pm unless cancelled. offer ends 11.59pm 31 may 2019. offer available to new and existing now tv customers only. offer not available in conjunction with any other now tv offer/combo/promotion. cancel any time. now tv account set up with debit/credit card required. now tv terms apply (nowtv.com/terms). content streamed via internet (costs may apply). one sky sports pass in your account at any one time. red button and interactive services are unavailable. all live scheduling subject to change. the f1 logo, f1, formula 1, fia formula one world championship, grand prix and related marks are trademarks of formula one licensing bv, a formula 1 company. all rights reserved.choose a sky sports passchoose a sky sports pass and only pay for the days you want with a day or week pass, or get a whole month of live sport with the month pass. plus if you're watching on the go, get 5 sky sports channels on your smartphone with a sky sports mobile month pass. that's the biggest live matches and events from just £5.99.sky sports day passpay as you go£8.99  the best sports action for 24 hours.sky sports month pass£33.99 a month*all 11 channels for a whole month on loads of devices.*pass auto-renews after pre-paid period at £33.99 a month, unless cancelled. no contract.the daily spectatorthe total fanaticthe sports fan on the gosky sports mobile month pass£5.99 a month*5 channels straight to your smartphone for a month.*pass auto-renews after pre-paid period at £5.99 a month, unless cancelled. no contract.  burn rubber, not cash with our f1 season ticket watch all 21 race weekends live on sky sports.  you'll get the entire f1® season across 9 months for a one-off £195 payment, that's just £5 per week!  after your offer period the action continues at £33.99 a month, unless cancelled.now tv sky sports f1® season ticket: one-off payment. 18+, uk only. at the end of the pre-paid period (9 months) sky sports month pass automatically renews at £33.99pm unless cancelled. offer ends 11.59pm 31 may 2019. offer available to new and existing now tv customers only. offer not available in conjunction with any other now tv offer/combo/promotion. cancel any time. now tv account set up with debit/credit card required. now tv terms apply (nowtv.com/terms). content streamed via internet (costs may apply). one sky sports pass in your account at any one time. red button and interactive services are unavailable. all live scheduling subject to change. the f1 logo, f1, formula 1, fia formula one world championship, grand prix and related marks are trademarks of formula one licensing bv, a formula 1 company. all rights reserved.choose a sky sports passchoose a sky sports pass and only pay for the days you want with a day or week pass, or get a whole month of live sport with the month pass. plus if you're watching on the go, get 5 sky sports channels on your smartphone with a sky sports mobile month pass. that's the biggest live matches and events from just £5.99.what's on?see what's coming up on sky sportsall events labelled with an asterisk (*) are available to watch on the sky sports mobile month passcompare our sky sports passesmobile month pass channelsday, week & month pass channels5 sky sports channels on your smartphonewith the sky sports mobile month pass you can get unlimited access to 5 channels, including sky sports premier league.all 11 sky sports channels available on day, week and month passget yours and start watching instantly from £8.99.*watch these 5 channels on the sky sports mobile month pass. all 11 channels available on a sky sports day, week and month pass.faqsways to watchget now tvno contractnow tv passeshow to watch now tvnow tv lets you stream tv to a huge range of devices - register up to 4 devices on your account so you can watch wherever you are. as long as you've got an internet connection you can get access to the latest blockbusters, must-see tv, great kids shows, unmissable reality shows and live sport. you can watch now tv on over 60 different devices. watch online at nowtv.com, download the app to watch on the go, or check out our now tv smart stick. for a full list of compatible devices and what to do, click here.nope! you can watch now tv on loads of devices including ps4™ and xbox one and compatible roku, chromecast, lg smart tv, pc, mac, smartphone, tablet and more. a now tv smart stick is the best way to watch your favourite shows and movies if you're planning on doing most of your watching on your tv. to find out more, click here.head over to our main faqs page here for more answers.a now tv pass is your ticket to watch what you want, on your terms. you can get a month long pass for entertainment, kids, hayu, movies and sports. we've also got a sports day or week pass if you just want to watch the big game! or if you want to stream live sky sports on your mobile, get our sky sports mobile month pass. want to give it a try? get a 7 day free entertainment, movies, hayu and kids trial to see what all the fuss is about! the sky sports month pass gives you a whole month of live sport, while the sky sports day and week passes let you pay only for the days you want to watch. or if you want to stream live sky sports on your mobile, get our sky sports mobile month pass.the sky sports mobile month pass gives you a whole month of 5 sky sports channels on your smartphone. you can get stuck into sky sports premier league, action, arena, racing and news for a whole month for just £5.99. you can only watch on smartphones, on one device at a time.you can't get a free trial of sky sports, but you can choose from a day, week or month long pass, so there is something for everyone. loads of ways to watch. watch instantly on over 60 devices, including ipad, iphone, your pc and even stream through games consoles or our very own now tv devices.3 simple ways to get now tvnow tv passeschoose one of our passes and start watching instantly. no contract.now broadbandget totally unlimited and reliable broadband. our hassle free switching means you'll be up and running in no time.now tv devicesget a now tv device and tv pass bundle to watch the latest and best entertainment on your big screen. no installation. no contract.the tv you love. on your terms. no contract. we’re all about flexible, hassle-free entertainment.dip in and out whenever you want by simply logging in to your account at anytime.