the sky q solution for flats.the plug-in adaptor is the quick easy way to get sky q installed.benefitshere’s how it worksresident requests sky q: the install process begins when your resident requests sky q.access: to complete your tv set-up we will require access to the communal tv system in your building. this will need to be obtained via your building management company.plug-in adaptor: your sky engineer will add the small plug-in adaptor between the communal system and the resident cables.install sky q: your sky engineer will then install the sky q box into the resident’s home.experience the very best of sky tv, on our best ever box. for the first time, you can access recordings anywhere around the home, pause a show in one room and carry on in another, and much more.if you can’t find the answer to your question here, click the button that applies to you for more options.if you can’t find the answer to your question here, click the button that applies to you for more options.yes, there are three ways in which a resident might get sky q; via a block that has already had it's communal system enhanced for q, via a plug-in adapter or via a mini dish.yes – for residents wishing to upgrade/subscribe to sky q. the plug-in adapter does not provide the virgin tv service. if the block is already wired for the virgin service, then there is no reason the resident could not choose between the two.no, there is no need for a survey before a plug-in adapter can be installed, which reduces the set-up time considerably for the resident. the install will be part of the resident’s set top box install and not take much longer than a standard customer installation. the engineer will need access to the resident’s element of the communal system on the day but the installation will not affect the system or any other residents.we have introduced the new plug-in adapter to make it quicker and simpler to get sky q installed. there is no re-configuring of the existing communal tv system or re-balancing of the system signal levels and minimal involvement from the managing agent if access is required, so the process should be smooth, seamless and much quicker.in most cases we gain access today to the residents element of the system to carry out a sky installation for a customer, so we don’t see that this will become an issue for you unless you have specified that you require a contact every time.the ownership and warranty of the plug-in adapter will sit with sky.resident calls sky as per the normal sales process, the resident need not know about or ask specifically for the adapter, the system will intuitively know if they are eligible to get sky q through an adapter.sky can recommend the services of 3rd party preferred partners (ashas) to complete the installation. these partners have worked with sky for many years, and passed and completed all of our stringent testing and requirements.an asha is a ‘sky homes approved agent’. they are a part of our specialist sky flats install team responsible for installing communal tv systems to blocks and houses.the installation partner recommended or appointed by sky is responsible for arranging the survey, providing a quote and the installation. all completed work and installations are subject to approval by our quality assurance team at sky.yes, please click here. please contact sky customer services on 0844 241 1653 and they’ll be happy to assist you. there may be a problem with your dish or box. please contact sky customer services on 0844 241 1653 and they’ll be happy to assist you.please contact sky customer services on 0844 241 1653 and they’ll be happy to assist you.yes, there are three ways in which you might get sky q; via a block that has already had its communal system enhanced for q, via a plug-in adapter or via a mini dish.residents call sky as per the normal order process, you need not ask specifically for the adapter, sky’s system will intuitively know if you require sky q through an adapter.no, the standard install fee still applies.we will need access to the area where the communal system is situated, this is usually in a riser cupboard or external cabinet. we will require you to organise access through your building management company so that our engineers can install the adapter.the install will be part of the resident’s set top box install and not take much longer than a standard customer installation.no. the plug-in adaptor can be connected to just your flat and won't affect any other residents.the plug-in adapter for sky q is a new and additional method of installation sky can now use to be able to offer our wide range of products and content. the installation of the adapter is included as part of the visit to set up your sky tv.our sales systems will pre-determine which install method is best for your circumstances; the plug-in adapter is not something which can be chosen by a customer or sales advisor.to enable us to complete your sky-q tv installation we will need access to the communal system so that our engineers can install a plug-in adapter or connect your satellite cable to the sky-q ready equipment already installed.billions © 2018 showtime. lego ninjago © 2016 the lego group. all rights reserved. seal team ©2017 cbs broadcasting, inc. all rights reserved. nashville ©2018 lionsgate entertainment inc. save me. criminal minds © 2013 american broadcasting companies, inc. all rights reserved. spongebob squarepants ©2018 viacom international inc. all rights reserved. chicago fire 2017 nbcuniversal media, llc. hawaii 5-0 ©2015 cbs broadcasting, inc. all rights reserved. the house © 2017 warner bros. ent. all rights reserved. justice league © 2016 warner bros. entertainment inc., ratpac-dune entertainment llc and ratpac entertainment, llc.blade runner 2049 © 2017 ctmg, alcon and wbei. all rights reserved. victoria and abdul © 2017 focus features llc. all rights reserved. thor: ragnarok ©marvel studios 2017. succession ©2018 home box office, inc. the last ship © 2017 warner bros. entertainment, inc. jumanji: welcome to the jungle ©2017 ctmg. all rights reserved. star wars: the last jedi 2017 industrial light & magic, a division of lucasfilm entertainment company ltd., all rights reserved. spider-man: homecoming ©2017 ctmg, inc. all rights reserved.