log in to espn or join to view your favoritesthere are several tampa bay rays who are worth a close look in fantasy baseball leagues. here are all the top waiver-wire options around the league.you don't have to look hard to find a ton of hitters and pitchers who are off to fantastic starts to the 2019 season, but which ones will last and which are fool's gold?1 relatedbreaking down a recent start by seattle mariners sp prospect justus sheffield, currently with the triple-a tacoma rainiers.1 relatedprepare your fantasy baseball lineups confidently with our daily preview, including pitcher projections, hitter matchup ratings and more.1 relatederic karabell looks at tuesday's biggest headlines, explains why the young rockies infielder is worth a flier and preaches patience with steven matz1 relatedprepare your fantasy baseball lineups with confidence with our daily preview, including pitcher projections, hitter matchup ratings and more.1 relatedraisel iglesias has gotten off to a bumpy start to the season, but is he in danger of losing the reds' closing gig? check out the closer report for a look around the league.1 relatedour updated closer depth chart displays the top closing options for each team.home runs are flying out of parks at an historic rate. are baseballs juiced? todd zola breaks down the top hitters who can take advantage of the situation.1 relatedderek carty provides daily fantasy recommendations for today's fanduel contests.1 relatedkeep up to date on the prospects who can make an impact on your fantasy team this season with our rankings, which are updated weekly throughout the season.1 relatedderek carty provides his daily fantasy recommendations for today's draftkings contests.1 relatedyankees first baseman greg bird was placed on the 10-day il with a left plantar fascia tear, and manager aaron boone thinks the injury will keep him out "at least a month." luke voit will start in bird's absence.1 relatedset your lineups for the week ahead in fantasy baseball with our pitcher rankings, hitter ratings and more.what should your fantasy expectations be for clayton kershaw for the season now that he is off the injured list?1 relatedthe crew discusses the odd blake snell injury, the value of jose ramirez and get excited about guerrero jr. in addition to assessing the bullpens & taking your questions.as he prepares to make his 2019 debut monday, the dodgers ace knows "if you keep getting hurt ... you have to change." that could mean bringing back a pitch he hasn't leaned on often.1 relatedafter finally getting a glimpse of 21-year-old slugger luis robert, we saw a great body and approach -- but not the results.the greatest pitcher on the planet wanted to play shortstop in college. but after he was coaxed to the mound, mets scouts couldn't believe what they saw.1 relatedthings are clicking for dansby swanson. which other players should you snag off the waiver wire? plus, a look at mlb action for wednesday and thursday.1 relatedwhat sort of potential does houston astros prospect forrest whitley carry this season and beyond in fantasy baseball?1 relatedthe braves have yet to see a save opportunity, but they will eventually. which closer candidate do you want on your fantasy team from the atlanta roster?1 relatedthe dodgers, nationals and twins are just a few of the teams whose daily lineup cards aren't exactly being filled out as we had expected before the season started. here's a look at how fantasy managers should react.1 relatedit can seem like a fine line between panicking and being patient when one of your key players is struggling early on. should you cut bait or wait?1 relatedsan diego padres second baseman luis urias is back in the majors. should he be added to your fantasy baseball roster?1 relatedkeep up to date on who is pitching -- and how well they're expected to do -- with our forecaster, which provides a rolling 10-day outlook of every team's probable starting pitchers with game score projections.stay ahead of the game and optimize your fantasy baseball hitters with our forecaster, which provides a rolling 10-day outlook of every team's hitting matchups as well as the potential for stolen bases.start drafting now! create or join a fantasy baseball league with standard or custom rules.young players are making an immediate impact across the majors. here are all the links you need to keep up with this year's crop of future stars.get everything you need to prepare for your fantasy baseball drafts here, including rankings and analysis from espn's team of experts.they aren't rookies, but these hitters and pitchers are primed to bust out and deliver bigger results in the new season.1 relatedfantasy baseball is a game about ceilings and floors, which means sometimes you have to take a chance and make a bold prediction. here are tristan h. cockcroft's biggest calls for the season ahead.1 relatedas the mlb season gets underway in earnest, these are the pitchers to keep a close eye on. their fantasy value could change quite a bit based on early performances.1 relateda look at the statistics, splits and other factors that matter when deciding which pitchers to start and sit in fantasy baseball.1 relatedthese hitters are worth your attention early on during the mlb season, as they could see their fantasy stock rise or fall based on their april and may performances.1 relateda look at the statistics, splits and other factors that matter when deciding which hitters to start and sit in fantasy baseball.1 relatedget the best fantasy baseball picks and advice from espn's top experts, all on one printable cheat sheet to bring with you to your draft.1 relatedfind out who went where in our latest 10-team mock draft based on a rotisserie format.the fun of a fantasy draft is competing with other managers for each pick. but what if you just got to choose your team uncontested? this is eric karabell's "perfect draft."1 relateddon't draft without a cheat sheet! our experts have provided their rankings in a convenient, printable format for you to take to your drafts.eric karabell identifies the players he's actively avoiding at their current average draft position.1 relatedprepare for your drafts with our top 300 overall and position-by-position rankings for rotisserie leagues.which prospects will make the biggest fantasy impact in 2020? we go around the minors to find the 10 names you need to know in your dynasty drafts.1 relatedwhich unheralded players could break out this season? tristan h. cockcroft highlights the ones to have on your radar.1 relatedkeep up to date on who is pitching -- and how well they're expected to do -- with our forecaster, which provides a rolling 10-day outlook of every team's probable starting pitchers with game score projections.whether you're deciding on which players to keep or drafting a new squad, these dynasty and keeper league rankings are here to guide you to the best team with an eye toward the future.keep up to date on the prospects who can make an impact on your fantasy team this season with our rankings, which are updated weekly throughout the season.an illustrated guide on everything you need to know about sports injuries.
an illustrated guide on everything you need to know about sports injuries.to help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?