we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization. you’ll also get exclusive access to fifa games, contests and prizes.don't have an account yet?world football
            23 feb 2019
          "you can always say, 'what if?' but in the moment it goes like that. you have to decide what to do in one split second. and you will never know. the people in holland, full of emotion, they say, 'what would have happened if he had scored that goal in the final?' but there was still half an hour to play and you never know what was going to happen. spain could have still attacked and scored."
reflecting on his illustrious career, arjen robben tells the daily mail that one of his largest regrets is a missed chance in the final at the 2010 fifa world cup south africa™"the first time i saw [kylian mbappe] i said, 'look, we have pele in france.' fortunately i was right. when you look at the boy – he's 20 years old – the way he handles himself, the way he acts on the football pitch, it's all there."
arsene wenger heaps high praise on the psg forward at the laureus awards"[cristiano ronaldo is] a laid-back and normal guy, like the rest of us. despite all he's achieved throughout his career, he's always been very gracious in the dressing room. that helps to make you feel comfortable when you're in the presence of such a player."
juventus' high-profile off-season addition has integrated well, paulo dybala tells uefa.com"the first time i saw @kmbappe i said we've got a @pele in france!""he's already a world class player!"the legendary arsene wenger with the highest of praise for france's 20-year-old ⭐️#laureus19 pic.twitter.com/ttcl6podrz"i decided to get involved and help wisla because i felt i had to. what is happening to wisla affects a lot of people, this club means a lot to very many. it’s not only over 100 years of history, there are so many people whose lives are intertwined with this club. it was and it still is very difficult at the club, but we are fighting so that every day gets easier and gives us more hope."
in his exclusive chat with fifa.com, jakub blaszczykowski opens up on his decision to cover team-mates' unpaid wages at wisla krakow"[lionel messi] is not a player. he's a genius. but a player on his own cannot win everything. soccer is a team sport. messi cannot win alone although he's done everything possible."
italian coach fabio capello insists that messi is not to blame for argentina's missteps in international competition"there was a guy i found incredible in training. i thought, 'what is he doing? is he only 18 or 19?' that player was mario gotze. he did things in training that made me think, 'wow. if he doesn't make it all the way to the top then i don't know!' that was overwhelming for me. i've tried to defend against him many times, but you just don't get the ball."
manchester city midfielder ilkay gundogan reminisces on his early training days with borussia dortmund playmaker mario gotze"this season i will bring something to you. i will break every record in major league soccer this season."
zlatan ibrahimovic hasn't lost his patented bravado in los angelesno biggie for @ibra_official 🤷‍♂️ pic.twitter.com/2atv3tdl3a"what vinicius is doing is not a surprise to me, as we knew about his potential. he is not cristiano ronaldo and there is still a lot of difference between the two, as cristiano made history at real madrid and portugal. vinicius, however, has what it takes to create history at real madrid."
two-time brazilian world champion cafu sees great potential for his countryman in madrid"i am excited [to play with lionel messi], i'm looking forward to it. in my opinion, he is the greatest player ever. it's difficult to define him. i think he is the most complete player. he can do everything with the ball and without, he creates a lot of chances, his left foot is amazing and he's so smart, just from another level."
ajax midfielder frenkie de jong, who will be joining barcelona in july 2019, explains for the club website why he believes his new team-mates' skills are unparalleled"he’s an icon, the most important player that has passed through our league. he is a level above. i’m a madridista, but not recognising that messi is going to be the best soccer player in history is not knowing football."
there's no doubt who is the best footballer of all-time, la liga president javier tebas tells marcafifa u-20 world cup22 feb 2019world football22 feb 2019uefa champions league20 feb 2019uefa champions league19 feb 2019