at espn, our reputation and credibility with viewers, readers and listeners are of paramount concern. while our goal is always to be accurate and fair, occasionally we will present an erroneous assertion of fact. significant errors of fact will be corrected in a clear and timely manner, with appropriate prominence.correctable errors involve a significant factual mistake, or materially change the implication or connotation of the reporting. this policy is not intended to cover inconsequential factual errors, such as minor statistical mistakes, inadvertent and immaterial misidentifications, minor inaccuracies in a developing story or font errors that don't impair the viewers' understanding of a story.each unit at espn -- such as studio, remote, magazine, radio, espn.com and other networks -- will implement this policy in a manner applicable to its medium. corrections of significant factual errors across all media, as warranted, will be posted on espn.com's corrections page for a period of time.espn produces 24/7 programming and services, across many platforms and under fierce deadline pressures. mistakes are inevitable. a meaningful policy for correcting significant errors will engender trust with viewers, listeners and readers. espn's willingness to correct mistakes, as necessary, is directly proportional to our credibility with our audiences. espn will regularly review and amend the policy as warranted.

submit a correction

 | 

report a bug

 | 

submit feedback

a march 31 story on espn.com incorrectly stated that a female reporter had filed a lawsuit against boxer kubrat pulev after he had forcibly kissed her. a lawsuit has not been filed. updated story
a march 23 story on espn.com misstated the reason two starters on the south carolina women's basketball team did not play in the team's first-round ncaa tournament game. the players were held out due to a coach's decision. updated story
an earlier version of a february 4 espn outside the lines story said the foul ball that hit linda goldbloom came off the bat of san diego's franmil reyes, according to information provided by the woman's family. but new information has raised uncertainty about the identity of the batter. updated story
a jan. 23 sub-headline on the espn.com ncaa recruiting home page incorrectly stated the status of an fbi investigation involving the university of arizona. university attorneys have previously acknowledged that a player has been interviewed by the fbi as part of its investigation into college basketball corruption. arizona officials have declined to release any subpoenas issued as part of the investigation. a nov. 16 story on espnfc was clarified to indicate that comments about a payment to outgoing executive chairman richard scudamore were made by a high-ranking club official, and the club itself has not issued a format statement. updated storya oct. 25 story on espnfc was updated to reflect that a player identified earlier is not the one training with liverpool. petit keita left his german club, fc inter leipzig, earlier this summer, but is not with liverpool. updated storya june 14 story on espn fc used quotes regarding neymar that his representatives said were inaccurate. the story was removed, re-edited to reflect the dispute and has been put back into the espn fc archives. updated story