please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization, plus get access to commenting tools, exclusive games, the chance to win cool football prizes and much, much more.don't have an account yet?we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.the nicaraguan football federation (fenifut) had long realised the need for not only improving medical support to los pinoleros but actually establishing a state-of-the-art medical facility for preventing an early detection of injuries and providing efficient and scientific support in recovering.in october 2018, with the support of the fifa forward development programme, the nicaraguan football federation (fenifut) inaugurated a medical clinic in the “negro julio” talent school located in diriamba, a municipality 41 kilometres west of managua, the capital. football development goes hand-in-hand with adequate medical monitoring and immediate and proper reaction to injuries and those are to be provided by the high quality equipment and the medical staff that has already started using this unique medical facility. following its installation, fenifut has become the first sports federation in the country to have its own medical clinic.president of fenifut manuel quintanilla shared his views about the project: "it is a dream come true. it was achieved thanks to the efforts that dr. cupertino borrell (doctor of the national teams) has always made and to the support of fifa through the forward programme."with this clinic, the member association improves the physical and muscular recuperation of athletes faster and professionalises the work of physiotherapists even more. among many other installations, it benefits from therapeutic ultrasound, combined ultrasound with current or electrical stimulation, electric blanket for heat (other humid heat), bicycles and many others.development programmes manager for the americas region at fifa jose arosemena, who was involved in this project from its inception, said: "the creation of medical clinics are an advantage for the national associations and essential to improve the performance of female and male players based on the most up-to-date sports medical devices. operated by competent and experienced medical personnel, evaluations and results will serve to improve physical performance and improve the health of the players."helping member associations allocate funds according to their priorities for the development of football in their territories is key and one of the major objectives of the international governing body. fifa forward offers its member associations the possibility to invest in football taking into account their specific needs and strategy.nicaragua came close to qualifying for the third stage of the concacaf qualifiers for the 2018 fifa world cup russia™. la azul y blanco defeated jamaica 3-2 in the first leg but later lost 2-0 in the second leg. with these new facilities, there are even more reasons to believe that their ambitions could be attained during the next world cup cycle.development22 jan 2019development08 feb 2019development09 jan 2019development21 dec 2018