we've detected that javascript is disabled in your browser. would you like to proceed to legacy twitter?yesemmy award-winning journalist. nhl. islandersare you sure you want to view these tweets? viewing tweets won't unblock @stanfischlerfinal thought today on the @tblightning. they had it so good during the regular season that they just might have gotten a bit too cocky. when the @bluejacketsnhl began raining on them, bolts had no umbrella!in that all-winning regard you have to wonder how a little guy such as henri (the pocket rocket) richard won a record-breaking eleven stanley cups.important notice: do not put the knock on #sidneycrosby. over the years hall of famers such as #rocketrichard, #gordiehowe, #bobbyhull, #guylafleur and #waynegretzky among others, have suffered playoff setbacks. no superstar can carry his team forever.knowing the @nyislanders dressing room as i have over the decades, i can say without fear of contradiction that this group of players reminds me of the 1955 world series champion #brooklyndodgers. or as bd publicist #irvrudd said, "there's not a rotter in the lot." all good guys.from what i have discerned from the pittsburgh media, @penguins coach #mikesullivan preached a defense-first game plan -- as he had in the winning month of march -- but right down to the end, his message went in one ear and out of the playoffs!one keen pittsburgh hockey analyst blamed the @penguins forwards for forgetting defense -- their asset in a winning month of march -- in the @nyislanders series. who's to blame -- the offense-first forwards or the coaches for their failure to rein the scorers an preach defense?does anyone out there in readersville see any similarity between the current @nyislanders and last season's incredible-but-true @goldenknights? at this time last year every vegas win was greeted with incredulity all the way to the final round.i'd be remiss if i failed to congratulate my buddy and joke-listener-to, #johntortorella for his equally magnificent job of steering the @bluejacketsnhl to their un-real sweep of the @tblightning. congrats as well to the bj players and  #sethjones, taught by travis green.6th thought on @nyislanders before a.m. coffee: #barrytrotz left the @capitals for several reasons and one important one was that he saw reviving the isles as a challenge to his coaching career. in voting for the off-ice first round mvp, it's got to be barry, nhl coach of year.5th thought on the @nyislanders: the boss, #loulamoriello took some media criticism for signing vets such as #filpulla, #tommy k and #leothe lionkamarov yet each one played an integral part in the team's success.
kudos to owners #jonledecky and #scottmalkin for hiring lou.4th thought on th @nyislanders. this team is so well-balanced it's hard to single out one hero above all. but if pressed on the matter i got with #robinlehner. then, #eberle, #bailey, #boychuk, #filpulla, ... see what i mean, the whole darn bunch of them.3d thought on the @nyislanders; what #barry trotz has doe-- very calmly mind you and that's important -- from september until now is one of the best coaching jobs in nhl history.  exhibit a: who scored the winner, yet again, #brocknelson who has thrived under barry.2nd thought on the @nyislanders: the great world war ii british prime minister winston churchill's line: "fear is a reaction; courage is a decision." some fans feared the worst vs. crosby-malkin; but not #barry trotz and not a single member of his team nor his staff.1st thought on the @nyislanders; the classic http://u.s.navy  seabees (construction battalion) line: "the difficult we do immediately; the impossible takes a little longer!" on to round two and more thrills!good for #alainvigneault getting the @nhlflyers gig. last time we met was speed-walking along manhattan's hudson river after he left the @nyrangers. i wished him luck, told him he'd be back in the bigs but never, ever figured it would behind the broad street bench. good move.many a critic has compared the @canadiensmtl legend, #rocketrichard and the @capitals #alexovechkin. one of the overlooked areas of comparison is fighting ability. ovie's one-punch ko last night was right out of the rocket's boxing book. this was one hab who could fight!the @nhlcanes walloping of the @capitals in game 3 tells me that 
#rodbrindamour's can knock off the champs. the one-sided blanket job is the kind of motivator that can be a momentum-changer.have you noticed that hockey broadcasters have changed terms? it's no longer "the goal post," it's now "the pipe." it used to be the "boards," now it's the "wall" and the poor, forgotten "crease" is now the "paint." ugh!!i've joked for years -- also seriously -- about the "dreaded three-goal lead." but it never, ever, was more dreaded than the one the @tblightning has in game one and eventually blew right out the window and likely right out of the entire series.using different words, both @nyislanders coach #barrytrotz and his @bluejacketsnhl counterpart, #johntortorella will remind their players that the nhl no longer has best-of-five playoffs. it's best-of-seven so there's still major -- otherwise known as important -- work to be done

          @stanfischler hasn't tweeted yet.
      back to top ↑
      twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. try again or visit twitter status for more information.
    
        you can add location information to your tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. you always have the option to delete your tweet location history.
        learn more
here's the url for this tweet. copy it to easily share with friends.add this tweet to your website by copying the code below. learn moreadd this video to your website by copying the code below. learn morehmm, there was a problem reaching the server. try again?by embedding twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the twitter developer agreement and developer policy.this timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.
    hover over the profile pic and click the following button to unfollow any account.
  
    when you see a tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.
  
    the fastest way to share someone else’s tweet with your followers is with a retweet. tap the icon to send it instantly.
  
    add your thoughts about any tweet with a reply. find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.
  
    get instant insight into what people are talking about now.
  
    follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.
  
    see the latest conversations about any topic instantly.
  
    catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.
  