please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization, plus get access to commenting tools, exclusive games, the chance to win cool football prizes and much, much more.don't have an account yet?we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.since its inception in 2016, the impetus given by the fifa forward programme to support the professionalisation of its 211 member associations around the world has been gaining momentum. the most recent seminar organised by the fifa member associations division took place in tashkent, uzbekistan at the beginning of december 2018.nine football federations from west and central asian regions participated in this workshop, namely afghanistan, iraq, kyrgyzstan, palestine, syria, tajikistan, turkmenistan, uae and uzbekistan. representatives from the member associations division and regional office also attended the gathering along with a range of international football development specialists who helped to deliver the workshop.on the agenda: key challenges and learnings from the first part of fifa forward development programme, the new forward 2.0 regulations, presentations incorporating information on good governance, financial aspects, and the possibility for the attending member associations to interact with fifa representatives and to formulate all their queries.a session on women football’s strategies was also provided to highlight how crucial the development of this category has become over the years. along with other specialists, the former president of the iceland fa, geir thorsteinsson (member of the fifa associations committee), took the floor to present a successful football development project achieved in his country.two best practices case studies from the football associations of palestine and tajikistan also demonstrated the progresses made in those associations in co-operation with fifa. finally, bilateral meetings took place to allow valuable exchanges and knowledge sharing among the participants. similar workshops are expected to take place in 2019 to foster the development of the beautiful game across the globe.words from our mas:sardor rahmatullayev (ufa general secretary):
"it is not a secret that fifa regularly assists member associations in many aspects. fifa forward programme is aimed at financial support to federations. it is a great instrument to develop football worldwide as well as to improve football infrastructure and launch new projects. i hope that the fifa forward workshop in tashkent was of great use. during those two days, participants learnt a lot about what had already been achieved by the forward programme and received answers to many of their questions."davlatmand islomov (tff general secretary):
"fifa forward programme is of crucial importance for football development in tajikistan. tff implemented several projects to improve infrastructure, grassroots, youth football and competitions in the last three years through fifa. now we are looking forward to the second cycle of the programme and many more projects to come. we hope this will help to take tajik football to a new level. the workshop in tashkent was vital to understand changes in the regulations and to meet colleagues from other member associations and fifa."suleiman abu afifeh (pfa project manager):
"it has been a valuable opportunity for our association to exchange our experience with other federations. the palestinian fa has benefited from the forward programme and has almost utilized all the current cycle funds to achieve our priorities and objectives. we are looking forward to working closely with fifa for the next cycle to meet and accomplish our goals."development13 may 2016development28 nov 2018fifa forward06 nov 2018fifa forward07 nov 2018