please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization, plus get access to commenting tools, exclusive games, the chance to win cool football prizes and much, much more.don't have an account yet?we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.the professional football department (pfd) was established in january 2016 as part of the modernisation of fifa’s approach to increase the level of engagement between fifa and professional football stakeholders. the department’s main objectives are to manage fifa’s various channels of communication with key professional football stakeholders, to establish a base of professional football data and knowledge, and – in conjunction with the confederations – to expand club licensing in each region.


in addition, the pfd performs research analysis on professional football matters, promotes the professionalization of club football through many professional football projects for fifa. the pfd is complemented by the newly created football stakeholders committee. the pfd will be well placed to act as a vehicle for breaking down barriers and providing tools for engagement within the football community.
fifa provides services and programmesâ to ensure the effective professionalisation of clubs, which includes club licensing, the establishment of national dispute resolution chambers (ndrcs) and other programmes. fifa is working in partnership with the six confederations through the fifa club licensing programme to establish standards for club football development and governance. fifa is also creating a long-term strategy to increase the number of ndrcs as well as other programmesâ to support clubs' and leagues' professionalisation at domestic level.the club licensing system provides many benefits, one of which is that it enables fifa to act as a central, global benchmarking hub. this gives fifa the means to provide the confederations with a wealth of empirical data and makes comparative analysis on club licensing issues possible.

the collection and analysis of data for the production of reports and research analysis generates valuable information for the global football family, enhances transparency and accountability, and is an example of fifa’s commitment to continually improve its structures and operations. fifa’s global club football report is a significant first step in this direction and will not only focus on club licensing issues, but on professional football matters in general. 