please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization, plus get access to commenting tools, exclusive games, the chance to win cool football prizes and much, much more.don't have an account yet?we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.our aim is to provide top-level medical services at fifa tournaments, to keep football free from doping, and to protect and improve the health of all who play football, from grassroots to elite level around the world. we are committed to preventing injuries on the field of play and promoting football as a healthy leisure activity. to this end, we work together with our member associations, the fifa medical centres of excellence, and other external stakeholders.there is no place for doping in sport today and fifa is continuously striving to keep football free from doping and lead by example to safeguard the future success and sustainability of football around the world.â our participation in worldwide football medical seminars and conferences helps us to stay informed and learn more from our medical networks. this includes the annual isokinetic medical group conference, which we help to organise. research and awareness campaigns on football medicine topics, such as sudden cardiac arrest for example, are a key part of our educational and awareness efforts towards injury prevention. we will continue to use the power and popularity of football as a platform to raise awareness. medical workshops, including emergency medicine and anti-doping, are also hosted by fifa at most tournaments, and fifa referees attend an emergency medicine course prior to each fifa competition.unfortunately, injuries will always occur in football. they can have a significant physical, emotional, psychosocial and financial impact on both the individual and the team. education and awareness are key for the management and prevention of injury. over the past two decades, fifa has taken significant strides in this area. it works closely with its 49 fifa medical centres of excellence, whose work includes state-of-the-art diagnosis and treatment of injuries, along with injury prevention and rehabilitation. fifa has introduced the free, online diploma in football medicine, which includes a learning module about injury prevention. at the 2018 fifa world cupâ„¢, fifa also introduced its first online injury surveillance tool, which was completed daily by each national team doctor and was designed to track and analyse illnesses, injuries and medication intake. the data collected provides useful information about injury patterns, frequency and expected severity as well as treatment methods, and is a prerequisite for the development of injury prevention strategies.fifa accredits established centres that have demonstrated medical, educational and research expertise in the area of football, including experience in the state-of-the-art diagnosis and treatment of injuries, in the aftercare of injuries and, most importantly, in the prevention of injuries, expertise in football-specific medical assessments, mental and psychological strategies, nutrition, and anti-doping matters. all fmces have to undergo a strict selection process and demonstrate medical, educational and research expertise in football and also report annually on their activities. in 2017, 49 centres were successfully reaccredited.