we use "cookies" to collect information. click here to read more.please sign in to your fifa.com user account below. this will allow you to make the most of your account with personalization. you’ll also get exclusive access to fifa games, contests and prizes.don't have an account yet?about fifa
            21 feb 2019
          fifa deputy secretary general and former croatia international zvonimir boban visited the confederação brasileira de futebol (brazilian football federation)  in rio de janeiro and attended a technical committee meeting for brazilian clubs.boban met with the leadership of the federation, including cbf executive director and president-elect rogerio caboclo, vice president fernando sarney, secretary general walter feldman, director of registration, transfers and licensing reynaldo buzzoni and director of competitions manoel flores.the meeting covered various topics, including fifa's future plans for competitions, development and new trends in world football.on thursday the fifa task force also met in rio de janeiro. "we talked a little bit about everything, especially about the new competitions that fifa has in mind," said boban, speaking with the cbf's official website. "tomorrow we have a very important meeting here in rio de janeiro to talk about what we are going to propose, so that the fifa council can make the best decisions.""the choice of brazil and the presence of the fifa task force demonstrate the central role we play in the development of world football," said caboclo. "together, we are going to debate proposals capable of further strengthening football."following the meeting, boban participated in the official opening of the technical committee of the brazilian serie b championship, where he welcomed the presidents of the clubs and state federations and stressed the importance of this type of meeting in valuing the role of clubs in football.a visit to the brazilian national team's museum was next in store as boban was joined by fifa technical director steven martens and two task force members giancarlo dapoto and tom gorrisen. boban was impressed by the building's historic heritage and its facilities. he was especially impressed with the room that holds the five fifa world cups™ that brazil have won."i do not believe there is anyone in the world who loves football and does not love brazil," said boban. "the soccer that brazil has given us. if you have a land where you breathe a little more football, it's here."before leaving the building, boban visited national team head coach tite, where the two talked briefly about fifa dates and preparation for the copa america. coordinator of the national team edu gaspar and other assistant coaches were also present. another meeting boban had was with cbf's base category coordinator branco. the two recalled the times they faced one another in italy. the croatian defended milan, while branco wore the genoa shirt.russia 201804 jul 2018about fifa09 jul 2017russia 201816 oct 2018fifa women's world cup 2019™21 feb 2019