tuesday 19 february 2019 14:52, ukfashion legend karl lagerfeld was perhaps as known for his oft controversial statements as he was for his designs.he subscribed completely to the mantra of thin models on the catwalk and was not afraid to hit back at critics.here are some of his best quotes.on his crafted persona:"i am like a caricature of myself, and i like that. it is like a mask. and for me the carnival of venice lasts all year long."on how he felt after fashion shows:"i'm a kind of fashion nymphomaniac who never gets an orgasm."on models:"no one wants to see curvy women on the runway."on sweatpants:"sweatpants are a sign of defeat. you lost control of your life so you bought some sweatpants."on the royals:the queen"nobody does the job better than [the queen] does. she is never ridiculous; she is flawless."carole middleton"i think carole is very sexy. i think the mother is sexier than the daughters. there is something full of life about her. for a woman who must be 50 or so, i think she's great. full of energy."kate, duchess of cambridge"kate middleton has a nice silhouette and she is the right girl for that boy. i like that kind of woman, i like romantic beauties. on the other hand, her sister struggles. i don't like the sister's face. she should only show her back." (he later clarified he was discussing her make-up)."kate is chic in a classic way, but sometimes, with her philip treacy hats, camilla is wilder. i know people who know her. apparently she's full of wit and spirit."diana"she was pretty and she was sweet, but she was stupid."on short men: "life is not a beauty contest, some ugly people are great. what i hate is nasty, ugly people. the worst is ugly short men. women can be short, but for men it is impossible. it is something that they will not forgive in life - they are mean and they want to kill you."on animals: "swans, they are the meanest animals in the world, you know. i had problems with them as a child. they hate children. i was caught by one, so i know. the idea of swans is lovely, and they have a beautiful shape, but they seem more romantic than they in fact are. i don't think really they die like this. they just drop dead, hmm? but who wants to see that?""i hate the idea of killing animals in a horrible way, but i think all that improved a lot. i think a butcher shop is even worse. it's like visiting a murder. it's horrible, no? so i prefer not to know it.""those beasts...would kill us if they could."on his cat, choupette:"i don't even think i'm that famous. now, choupette really is famous. she has become the most famous cat in the world. i even get propositioned by pet food companies and things like that, but it's out of the question. i'm commercial. she's not. she's spoiled to death. obviously.""everybody is around for her, she is the centre of the house, of the universe. she sleeps next to my head. she eats on the table - she has flawless manners."on business:"we created a product nobody needs, but people want. if you need an ugly old car, it can wait, but if you want a new fashion item, it cannot wait."on fashion influence:"whatever it is, good or bad, it influences fashion. you can see that in fashion quicker than in any other thing going on. fashion is something that reflects our lives and times with the shortest release, because, cars, design and architecture take years to realise."on weight loss:"i lost 200lbs to wear suits by hedi slimane.""my only ambition in life ... is to wear size 28 jeans."on dressing to a budget:"never use the word 'cheap'. today everybody can look chic in inexpensive clothes (the rich buy them too). there is good clothing design on every level today. you can be the chicest thing in the world in a t-shirt and jeans - it's up to you."on model criticism:"they are fat mummies sitting with their bags of crisps in front of the television, saying that thin models are ugly." on selfies:"i don't do selfies. but other people do, and they all want to do selfies with me. no, no, no. thank god, sébastien, my assistant, he's mean to the people in the street, mean and rude. i'm a nice person."on his favourite models:"there are people i call my choupettes."on retirement:"why should i stop working? if i do, i'll die and it'll be all finished."
 © 2019 sky uk
