AdvertisementSupported byBy Robin SwithinbankThe Swiss watch brand Hublot, which has partnered with the likes of the FIFA World Cup and the Ferrari Formula One team, has announced that it will continue its role as official timekeeper of the Cricket World Cup, with the 2019 competition scheduled to start May 30.The event is sponsored by the International Cricket Council and held every four years — this year in England and Wales.Hublot’s previous high-profile sporting affiliations have put it in competition with more established watch brands, such as Rolex, Omega and Audemars Piguet, each of which has successfully used sports to raise brand awareness. Hublot was founded in 1980 and has been owned by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton since 2008.Ricardo Guadalupe, Hublot’s chief executive, said that Hublot’s strategy was to invest in sports that have a global footprint and little, if any, association with other Swiss watch brands. In the past, Audemars Piguet had worked with Sachin Tendulkar and Ulysse Nardin with Yuvraj Singh, both Indian cricketers, but Hublot is the first to partner with the organizing council.“Cricket is virgin territory,” Mr. Guadalupe said in an interview during the announcement of the partnership at the brand’s Bond Street boutique in London.Mr. Guadalupe said cricket also would give Hublot a route to market in targeted regions. “Cricket is huge in India,” he said. “There is potential to grow heavily in India and with Indians, who buy all over the world.”Cricket is India’s most popular sport. The national broadcaster Star India reported that its television coverage of the 2015 Cricket World Cup, also sponsored by Hublot, was watched by more than 600 million people in the country. (The 2019 Super Bowl had a domestic audience of 98.2 million, according to the research firm Nielsen.)“We’ve had double-digit growth in India since we got involved in cricket,” Mr. Guadalupe said, adding that this summer Hublot plans to open its first stand-alone boutique in Mumbai, India’s financial center and largest city, and is working on one in New Delhi.Mr. Guadalupe declined to disclose the cost of the I.C.C. partnership, but said that it was in the “single millions” of dollars and much less costly than Hublot’s soccer affiliations.As part of the cricket deal, Hublot had announced a 100-piece limited-edition watch, a version of its 45-millimeter Classic Fusion Chronograph that is scheduled for release on March 23. (Mr. Guadalupe said the 2,018-piece limited-edition connected watch that Hublot made for the 2018 World Cup sold out in four weeks.)Mr. Guadalupe also said that some top Hublot customers would be given a special experience at the Cricket World Cup, but that the reason for the partnership was to “build and shape the consumer of tomorrow.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Fahim Abed and Mike IvesKABUL, Afghanistan — If ever a team needed to win big for its fans’ sake, it was this one — at this moment.On Monday, Afghanistan’s beloved national cricket squad prompted cheers back home by winning its first-ever match in the Test format, the sport’s highest level of competition.The win, against Ireland at a Test match in northern India, is an increasingly rare commodity: a good news story in Afghanistan. Security forces there are fighting a desperate, bloody campaign against the Taliban, and many fear that if the United States reaches a deal with the insurgents, it could jeopardize human rights and the safety of ethnic minority groups.“People are in love with cricket, and amid the news of suicide attacks, bombing of civilians and losses of security forces, it is the only thing that brings happiness,” said Nazim Jar Abdurrahimzai, the game development manager at the Afghanistan Cricket Board.Afghan fans have been jubilant on social media since the victory. The cricket board has said that celebrations are planned, and that some fans plan to greet the members of the team when they arrive at the Kabul airport on Wednesday.Praise for the team has also poured in from cricket fans, players and organizations around the world.Even the former cricket star Imran Khan, now the prime minister of neighboring Pakistan, which has tense relations with Afghanistan, congratulated the country on its “amazing successes in such a short period of their exposure to international cricket.”Afghanistan’s first cricket team was founded more than a decade ago by players returning home from a refugee camp in Pakistan. The sport later grew into a national obsession, a status it already enjoyed across much of South Asia.Afghan cricket stars like Rashid Khan are now mega-celebrities whose faces are plastered across billboards. Television channels and radio stations avidly follow their matches, and the local fan base has rapidly grown.“Afghanistan’s cricket team has surmounted obstacles unknown to most athletes — terrorism, displacement, war — and with flair and panache that have won admirers the world over,” the cricket journalist Sidharth Monga wrote last year in the Opinion section of The New York Times.Cricket’s Test format, in which matches last up to five days, is the sport’s most exclusive club. In 2017, Afghanistan and Ireland became the first new Test countries since Bangladesh was promoted to Test status in 2000.In Afghanistan’s inaugural Test match last year, the national team was routed by India in just two days. The team’s coach, Phil Simmons, said at the time that while his players had a “huge” learning curve to overcome, they also had an admirable work ethic.“Now we know that we have to work five times as hard,” Mr. Simmons said.The team’s Test victory on Monday came on the fourth day of a match at Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium, in the northern Indian city of Dehradun. Afghanistan is now only the third country — along with England and Pakistan — to win after just two appearances at the Test level. (Only Australia won faster, on its first try.)President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan called the victory “a proud moment for the whole nation.”Mohammad Nabi, one of the team’s stars, vowed that it would not be Afghanistan’s last. “If we can put up a good score on the board, then we are confident of beating any team in the world,” he said.A major challenge will come this spring, when the team makes its second appearance at the ICC Cricket World Cup in England and Wales. Although Afghanistan is ranked 10th out of 10 teams at the tournament, its captain, Asghar Afghan, said recently that the goal was not merely to show up but to win. Sharaf Naib, 23, a construction worker in Kabul, said by telephone on Tuesday that he had already built a Cricket World Cup trophy — out of snow — in anticipation.“This is the only thing that gives us a break from the ongoing violence and sad incidents happening in the country,” he said of the cricket team’s success. “It’s our only social life.”Fahim Abed reported from Kabul, and Mike Ives from Hong Kong.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorIn recent days, as India and Pakistan came almost to the brink of war, the members of the Boston Gymkhana Sports Club — a cricket club that, like many in the United States, has members from both countries — did not interrupt their usual social calendar.Some members were on edge about the escalation between the two nuclear-armed nations, which began two weeks ago when a suicide bombing in the disputed region of Kashmir killed more than 40 Indian soldiers. And many had sharply different perspectives on the conflict.Rajiv Shah, 46, who emigrated in 1999 from the Indian state of Gujarat, was approving when the Indian government conducted airstrikes in Pakistan, claiming to kill a large number of terrorists.Others felt that India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, was exploiting the situation, intentionally ramping up tensions in hopes of solidifying his support in the coming elections.At least a couple of members gave some credence to conspiracy theories that the Indian government itself might be behind the terrorist attack.And yet, there was a birthday to celebrate: The club’s founder, Bikram Singh, was turning 53. The club members, accustomed to setting aside their differences and carrying on with their friendships at times of heightened hostility between the two countries, were planning a party.“No matter what, we live and play or interact with people that we completely disagree with sometimes, but we still manage,” said Mr. Singh, whose family is from the northwestern Indian state of Punjab.The past week has seen some people in India and Pakistan openly root for war, while others have urged the country’s leaders to find a way to end the crisis. (Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan — himself a former cricket star — made a move in that direction, and gained an international publicity coup, when he released an Indian pilot whom Pakistan had captured, reducing tensions somewhat, although shelling continued along the disputed border.)In the United States, sentiments were similarly mixed: Some Indian-Americans protested outside the Pakistani consulates in New York and Chicago, accusing the country of harboring terrorists, while others joined marches for peace.But among the members of the Boston Gymkhana Sports Club, there was no palpable unease as they gathered on Sunday evening at Mr. Singh’s comfortable home in Norfolk, about 40 minutes southwest of Boston. Mr. Singh, who had just returned from a vacation to India — his trip home took some 51 hours, because his flight had to be diverted to avoid Pakistani airspace, he said — wore a saffron-colored vest and sipped whiskey. Vegetable fritters and other appetizers were laid out, and club members and their wives and a few teenage children greeted each other with hugs.The roughly 40 guests were a subset of the cricket club’s membership, which Mr. Singh said is between 150 and 200, depending on the year. The majority are from India; Mr. Singh estimated that about 10 percent are from Pakistan.Over all, several members agreed, the club members do not discuss the decades-long conflict between India and Pakistan much.“Some of it is deferential, so you obviously try not to hurt the other person’s feelings,” Nafis Ahmad, 51, who is from Karachi, explained the day before the party. He added: “Our club is kind of gentlemanly in a sense. We try not to delve into topics that are too controversial.”A simple guide to the roots of the conflict and what could happen next.This is striking given how much time the club members spend together. Games last some six hours, and afterward, the club members will often spend another six hours eating dinner and drinking together. In the winter, when they don’t play cricket, they play poker in a large upstairs room in Mr. Singh’s home, decorated with dozens of cricket trophies and nearly as many bottles of liquor. (The amount of socializing has led the club to adopt an unofficial motto: “We also play cricket.”)There have been times when geopolitics have briefly intruded on the club’s bonhomie, and early on, one episode led to a member being ejected. That was in 1999, shortly after Mr. Singh had founded the club, and when it had only one or two Pakistani members.That spring and summer, India and Pakistan briefly went to war in Kashmir. Mr. Singh said he received a phone call one morning from an Indian-American club member demanding that the Pakistani members be kicked out.Mr. Singh said he was stunned. “I said, ‘You know what? You’re not going to play in our club anymore — that’s not the kind of club we are.’ ”On Sunday, at a reporter’s request, a group of the party guests agreed to move into the poker room to discuss the most recent escalation. There was no one from Kashmir, the region at the center of the rivalry, whose residents are often left out of the debate about the two country’s actions. It wasn’t long before differences emerged.Omar Virk, 28, who grew up outside Lahore and came here three and a half years ago to study for his bachelor’s degree at the University of Massachusetts, Lowell, said he believed that India’s prime minister was purposefully stoking the conflict.“Modi is trying to push into this one,” he said. “You know how he won the last election, right? He was anti-Pakistan from the start.”“I disagree with that,” said Moin Ghouse, 38, who is from the Indian city of Hyderabad.“I think Modi is politically savvy enough to understand the risks involved in going for an all-out war,” Mr. Ghouse added.Mr. Virk began talking about theories he said were being discussed on Indian television suggesting that Mr. Modi himself was behind the terrorist attack. “Nobody can prove that,” he added, though he said he had been thinking the same thing.Others said the idea was absurd.Mr. Shah, the club member from Gujarat — Mr. Modi’s home state, where he was chief minister in 2002 when deadly religious riots took place in which roughly a thousand people, mostly Muslims, were killed — said many Indians were thrilled that Mr. Modi had taken a stand and attacked Pakistan in response to the suicide bombing.As competing conversations broke out, Mr. Ahmad, the club member from Karachi, said he had been worried in recent days about the possibility of war, because he believed that India increasingly saw itself as a superpower.“I was a little unnerved that we may be — on the other side of the border, some of our brothers may be a little bit too much trigger-happy, and they would say, ‘O.K., these guys have been doing these shenanigans for us for many, many years, let’s show them.’”One of Mr. Singh’s close friends, Parak Ananta, began reminding the group that dinner was getting cold downstairs. Eventually, everyone went down to eat.Asked when club members last had a conversation like this, Mr. Singh said that it had been years ago, when he started a Facebook group for club members and others to discuss a series of India-Pakistan cricket games. Mr. Ananta had thought starting the group was a bad idea — that passions would run too high, and people would say things they would regret. Looking back, Mr. Ananta said that he felt he had been right; the conversation had damaged some friendships.“We have to be real sometime,” Mr. Singh insisted. “We can’t just be in a cocoon all the time.”Mr. Ananta disagreed. “Even between wife and husband there are certain things that are taboo,” he said.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article gave an incorrect description of Hyderabad in India. It is a city, not a state.OpinionBasharat PeerAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bymatterDiplomatic officials may have been targeted with an unknown weapon in Havana. But a recording of one “sonic attack” actually is the singing of a very loud cricket, a new analysis concludes.By Carl ZimmerIn November 2016, American diplomats in Cuba complained of persistent, high-pitched sounds followed by a range of symptoms, including headaches, nausea and hearing loss. Exams of nearly two dozen of them eventually revealed signs of concussions or other brain injuries, and speculation about the cause turned to weapons that blast sound or microwaves. Amid an international uproar, a recording of the sinister droning was widely circulated in the news media. On Friday, two scientists presented evidence that those sounds were not so mysterious after all. They were made by crickets, the researchers concluded.That’s not to say that the diplomats weren’t attacked, the scientists added — only that the recording is not of a sonic weapon, as had been suggested.Alexander Stubbs of the University of California, Berkeley, and Fernando Montealegre-Z of the University of Lincoln in England studied a recording of the sounds made by diplomats and published by The Associated Press.“There’s plenty of debate in the medical community over what, if any, physical damage there is to these individuals,” said Mr. Stubbs in a phone interview. “All I can say fairly definitively is that the A.P.-released recording is of a cricket, and we think we know what species it is.”Mr. Stubbs presented the results of the analysis at the annual meeting of the Society of Integrative and Comparative Biology. He and Dr. Montealegre-Z also posted an early version of their study online. They plan to submit the paper to a scientific journal in the next few days.When Mr. Stubbs first heard the recording, he was reminded of insects he came across while doing field work in the Caribbean. When he and Dr. Montealegre-Z downloaded the sound file, they found that its acoustic patterns — such as the rate of pulses and the strongest frequencies — were very similar to the songs of certain kinds of insects.Male singing insects produce regular patterns during courtship. Females are attracted to certain males based on their songs, which has led to the evolution of different songs in different species.If the sounds heard by the diplomats were made by insects, Mr. Stubbs and Dr. Montealegre-Z reasoned, it might be possible to pinpoint the particular species. To search for a match, the researchers analyzed field recordings of North American insects stored in an online database at the University of Florida. They found a striking resemblance to one species in particular: the Indies short-tailed cricket.Yet the cricket’s song differs from the Cuban recording in one important respect. The noises heard by the diplomats were erratic, while the insects make high-pitched, rapid-fire pulses.Mr. Stubbs suspected that this mismatch might be an artifact of the recording itself. Diplomats made their recordings inside houses, while biologists have recorded the crickets in the wild.So Mr. Stubbs played the cricket recording in a house. As the calls bounced off the walls, they echoed in a pattern similar to the irregular pulses heard on the Cuban recording.The song of the Indies short-tailed cricket “matches, in nuanced detail, the A.P. recording in duration, pulse repetition rate, power spectrum, pulse rate stability, and oscillations per pulse,” the scientists wrote in their analysis.Experts on cricket songs said the analysis was well done. “It all seems to make sense,” said Gerald Pollack of McGill University, who studies acoustic communication among insects. “It's a pretty well supported hypothesis.”When the American diplomats first complained of the strange noises in Cuba, they dismissed the possibility that insects were responsible. But short-tailed crickets are exceptional: They have long been known to make a tremendous racket.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]“The song of the males of this cricket, here, is a continuous ringing z-z-z-z-z-z- of tremendous volume and penetration which practically fills a room with veritable din,” an entomologist in the Dominican Republic reported in 1957. Mr. Stubbs recorded short-tailed crickets while in Costa Rica, and he found their songs overpowering. “They’re incredibly loud,” he said. “You can hear them from inside a diesel truck going forty miles an hour on the highway.”The Indies short-tailed cricket is known to live in the Florida Keys, Jamaica and Grand Cayman. A closely related cricket is known to live in Cuba, and Mr. Stubbs suspects that its Indies cousin lives there, too.Mr. Stubbs said that his conclusion does not rule out an attack on American diplomats. But the sounds linked to the initial complaints may have been a red herring.“It’s entirely possible that they got sick with some other completely unrelated thing that was not a sonic attack, or that they were targeted in some other way,” he said. Dr. Douglas Smith, who led the medical examination of the American diplomats, questioned how much a single recording could reveal about the experience. Some patients didn’t report hearing anything unusual, he noted, while others heard a range of sounds.“It could be like a low-tone motor, or metal scraping, or like driving in a car with the back window open,” said Dr. Smith, director of the Center for Brain Injury and Repair at the University of Pennsylvania.Dr. Smith wouldn’t rule out the possibility that some diplomats might have heard crickets, but said that had no bearing on the real damage they’ve suffered. “These patients have gone through a lot,” he added. “I would like to know what the sounds are, but for us the more important thing is really what’s going on in the patients’ brains and what we can do about it.”Carl Zimmer writes the “Matter” column. He is the author of thirteen books, including “She Has Her Mother's Laugh: The Powers, Perversions, and Potential of Heredity.”  @carlzimmer • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week: The latest on the Green New Deal, and a new recipe in the kitchen.By Lisa Friedman, Ronda Kaysen and Henry FountainWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By Lisa FriedmanThere’s a lot going on in Washington and the world this week, but there’s also still a lot of buzz around the Green New Deal, a proposal put forth by Democrats that would reshape the American energy sector to tackle climate change and create jobs.Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, has said he’ll bring the proposal to a vote in the coming months, a move that could force Democratic senators who are running for president to choose sides.Young people who follow the Sunrise Movement, an environmental group, have protested at government offices in recent days to demand that lawmakers vote in favor of the proposal. About 40 young people, some holding a sign saying “Mitch, look us in the eyes,” were arrested Monday while holding a sit-in at Mr. McConnell’s Washington office. They and other critics have denounced the vote as a ploy to divide Democrats and throw cold water on the notion of an ambitious climate plan.But activists aren’t focusing solely on Republicans. Last week a group of schoolchildren confronted Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, over her resistance to the Green New Deal. Ms. Feinstein — who has a 100 percent lifetime rating from the League of Conservation Voters, which tracks lawmakers’ environmental records — told the students the Green New Deal had little chance of passing a Republican-led Senate. Video of the encounter spread quickly on social media.For a deep dive into both the political perils of the Green New Deal and the technological hurdles of decarbonizing the United States economy, check out this piece that Trip Gabriel and I did last week. And if you’re confused about what the Green New Deal is, I try to offer answers to some basic questions here.In other news, the White House announced last week that it had ended talks with California on whether the state could retain its right to set stricter automobile emissions standards than the federal government.The breakdown of negotiations, Hiroko Tabuchi and I reported, signals that the Trump administration is moving toward freezing an Obama-era rule that would have doubled fuel economy standards by 2025.And in the world of science, be sure not to miss this piece by Kendra Pierre-Louis on how extreme weather can start to feel … well, not all that extreme. Happy reading!By Ronda KaysenFor those of us hooked on the Netflix show “Tidying Up with Marie Kondo,” this has been a season of decluttering. (If you haven’t caught the bug yet, consider taking The Times’s Tidy Home Challenge).But when you clear the closets of the stuff that no longer sparks joy, or simply doesn’t fit, you are confronted with a pile of possessions in need of a new home. It may be tempting to take the junk to the dump, leave it on the curb or hand off a mass of unsorted goods to a charity that may not want or need them.Do the planet a favor instead. Many items can be sold, donated or recycled properly, giving them another life that will be better for the environment.Consider textiles, which accounted for 6.1 percent of municipal waste generated in the United States in 2015, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. In 2015, Americans recycled 2.5 million tons of textiles, but sent 10.5 million tons to landfills.“Most people think, ‘O.K., my clothing is stained, it’s garbage,’ ” said Zach Cohen, owner of the Manhattan and Brooklyn franchises of Junkluggers, a hauling company. But there are textile companies that will take clothing, rugs and “anything that is made out of fabric and reuse it and recycle it,” he said.Your tattered towels and worn-out socks, for example, can get new life as upholstery filler or insulation.To help get your stuff to the right place, call the charity of your choice and find out what items it accepts. Some accept goods in poor condition for recycling, while others only want what’s suitable for resale.You can also try specialized organizations, like Books Through Bars, a Philadelphia group that gives paperbacks to people in prison.You could donate used bras to the Bra Recyclers, which has a drop-off locator on its website. Even an old mattress need not end up in a landfill. Bye Bye Mattress, for example, recycles mattresses in some states.Have a pair of shoes you’ve hardly worn? Donate them to an organization like Soles4Souls. And Habitat for Humanity collects old furniture, appliances and even building materials.Other lightly used possessions may still have value, if you have the patience to sell them online.Contact your local sanitation department to find out how your city would like you to dispose of hazardous materials like latex paint, batteries and fluorescent light bulbs. Many communities have drop-off days.Even those items most likely destined for the curb, like broken appliances, may have life yet as scrap metal. The more stuff you can keep out of the landfill, the better.By Henry FountainI’ve baked a lot of bread over the years, from basic Irma Rombauer white loaves to Tassajara sponge whole-wheat sourdoughs. But until a few weeks ago I had never baked cricket bread.As in, bread with ground-up crickets.Eating insects is common in many parts of the planet (the United Nations estimates that roughly one-third of the world’s population consumes them, and they are offered as street food in Mexico, Thailand and other countries), but it hasn’t fully caught on in the United States. Chefs are experimenting, and companies like Hotlix and EntoVida are making snacks and other products from grasshoppers, worms and other insects. (Can I interest you in a bag of mixed bugs?)There are several qualities that may make insects attractive to consumers. They pack a lot of protein and other nutrients per ounce, more than beef and some other protein sources. And they get good marks from a sustainability and climate perspective — they convert feed to protein very efficiently, use little water and produce only tiny amounts of greenhouse gases. (Unlike cattle, insects emit little to no methane.)But for many people there’s an ick factor to eating them whole. To overcome that, some companies are trying other means to get crickets into our diet.That’s the case with Seek Food, a small New York City company. Seek sells cricket granola and other snacks, but it also sells flour mixes, including the one I used, “all-purpose,” which combines standard wheat flour with ground crickets. “It’s an entry-level approach to eating crickets,” said Robyn Shapiro, the company’s founder and chief executive.Ms. Shapiro declined to say exactly how much cricket flour her mix contains, but said it was less than 25 percent. The resulting flour has 40 percent more protein than wheat flour alone.In case you’re wondering, Seek’s crickets (the house cricket, or Acheta domesticus) are raised by a Texas company in stainless steel tubs. They don’t need much light or water, but the warmer the environment, the faster they grow. The bugs are fed an all-grain diet but they are not that picky — they can subsist on scraps or other food waste. “Crickets are omnivores,” Ms. Shapiro said.After about six weeks, the insects are frozen until they are dead. Then they’re dried and milled.The flour comes in a 12-ounce bag with a recipe on the back — a standard one that calls for yeast, sugar, water, salt and oil to make a basic loaf. The flour was darker than wheat flour, and had an odor that reminded me of malted milk powder. It mixed with the other ingredients easily, and the dough was light and easy to knead.The recipe called for eight to 10 minutes of kneading, and I could understand why. Crickets don’t have any gluten, so it’s important to fully develop the gluten in the wheat flour to get the dough stretchy enough for proper rising.The bread that resulted was fairly dark as well, but had a decent texture. I brought it to the office so my Climate colleagues could try it with butter and jam. It was actually pretty tasty. I’d almost call it normal. Almost.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times.Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman Henry Fountain covers climate change, with a focus on the innovations that will be needed to overcome it. He is the author of “The Great Quake,” a book about the 1964 Alaskan earthquake.  @henryfountain • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning. I started writing this newsletter in the weird liminal space between Australia and the United States, caught in the 24-hour miasma that haunts the travel home. I was living in the moment, but what moment it was, what day, what hour, was a mystery. Occasionally there was food, and I ate it; water, and I drank it. Sleep came and then vanished. It was a Sofia Coppola film stuck in turnaround. The script needed work.I thought about cooking a lot, how I couldn’t wait to get back to the kitchen and boogie: a Reuben to eat with a cold beer; some fire-tingly Chinese lamb burgers to share with the family while the dog lolls beneath our feet; a green okonomiyaki to split with my wife; some sheet-pan chicken fajitas (above) to feed the kids and their friends.So there’s that. But now that I’m back home, I’d like to make a freestyle chicken Parm as well, eat it with a glass of stringent red, try to explain this story I saw in Sydney about the pressure some are bringing on the International Cricket Council to adopt one brand of cricket ball for Test matches between countries. There are lots of new words and phrases to consider there. Leg spinner!I’d like to make bananas Foster bread pudding, if only because it asserts an excellence in American dessert and I haven’t had it in ages. Also: Melissa Clark’s recipe for an omelet mousseline, into which I’d like to fold some sea urchin just as if my name were Riad Nasr or Lee Hanson. What a meal that would be! Please try it in my name.Samin Nosrat’s Roman egg drop soup? Francis Lam’s caramelized scallions, to stir into noodles? Julia Moskin’s chicken francese? Yotam Ottolenghi’s one-pan pasta with harissa Bolognese? All those, too.There are many thousands more recipes to cook this week waiting for you on NYT Cooking. (You will, yes, need a subscription to access them. Buying one supports our work!) You can also find inspiration on our Instagram, Facebook and Twitter feeds and, as always, you can ask us for help if you run into trouble with your cooking or our technology: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We will get back to you. (If you’re particularly exercised, though, don’t bother those good people. I’m at foodeditor@nytimes.com, and I absorb heat.)Now, it’s a long fly ball from Vegemite and sangers, but I think you might really like Lou Berney’s haunting “November Road,” a noir romance that takes place in the wake of the Kennedy assassination.Also, looking back toward Australia, Garry Disher’s “Whispering Death.”I missed the Amy Winehouse documentary “Amy” when it came out a few years ago. Watched it on Netflix and can’t get a few scenes out of my head. Maybe that’ll happen to you, too?Finally, a must-read: Alec MacGillis on “The Tragedy of Baltimore,” in The New York Times Magazine. See you on Wednesday? That’s the idea.cookingcookingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Noel MurrayEvery month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are our picks for March, broken down by release date.[Not the month you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.]‘Cricket Fever: Mumbai Indians’ Starts streaming: March 1Following up on the success of the American football-themed “Last Chance U,” Netflix looks to India for its next multipart sports documentary. “Cricket Fever” follows a perennially successful cricket club, the Mumbai Indians, during a season when players struggled to measure up to their usual standards. Cricket fans ought to appreciate an intimate look behind the scenes, but even viewers who don’t know the game well will have the chance to get caught up in the personal experiences of these athletes as they strive to remain excellent.—‘Losers’Starts streaming: March 1Sports’ biggest failures are often held up as cautionary tales, or treated as minor characters in someone else’s triumph. The docu-series “Losers” looks back at moments when athletes flopped spectacularly, and asks how — or if — they’ve recovered. Some of these subjects are fairly well known, like the golfer Jean van de Velde’s meltdown at the 1999 Open Championship in Scotland, or the figure skater Surya Bonaly defiantly finishing her Olympic career with an illegal move. But even the less familiar stories are fascinating, focusing not just on the worst moments of these people’s lives, but on what happened next.—‘After Life’Starts streaming: March 8The “Extras” and “The Office” comedian Ricky Gervais leans heavily on his offscreen reputation as a fearless and at times careless truth-teller in his new series, “After Life,” in which he stars as a man who reacts to his wife’s death by becoming angry and unfiltered. Gervais wrote and directed the entire six-episode first season, which like his earlier TV work tries to balance brutal black comedy with earnest sentiment. But this particular show — even more than its predecessors — seems intended to deliver a heartfelt message, woven throughout its scenes of insults and profane outbursts.—‘Terrace House: Opening New Doors’ Part 6Starts streaming: March 12The latest iteration of the Japanese reality series “Terrace House” comes to an end with nine final episodes, all following a group of men and women who’ve agreed to live together, and to go on dates with each other, with cameras following their every move — and with a panel of commentators sharing jokes and best wishes. Unlike some reality concepts that push participants toward artificial conflict, or encourage them to lower their inhibitions, “Terrace House” has won a faithful audience around the world for its refreshing mundanity. This show delivers what the reality genre has often promised: a chance to peek into ordinary people’s lives and judge how they interact.—‘Love, Death & Robots’Starts streaming: March 15A different kind of anthology series, “Love, Death & Robots” compiles 18 animated short films, illustrated in wildly varying styles, but all aimed at mature audiences. The producers Tim Miller (best-known for directing “Deadpool”) and David Fincher (the director of “Fight Club”) are shepherding a show that, like the groundbreaking “adult fantasy” comics magazine “Heavy Metal,” will present tried-and-true horror and science-fiction concepts, with cranked-up violence, sex and surrealism.—[Want more Australia coverage? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter here.]‘Queer Eye’ Season 3Starts streaming: March 15The phenomenal popularity of Netflix’s Marie Kondo series “Tidying Up” might be partly attributable to the earlier success of the service’s “Queer Eye for the Straight Guy” reboot, which has won audiences worldwide thanks to the cheery pleasures of an inside-and-out makeover show — where experts don’t just clean out clients’ closets, they also polish up their self-esteem. For the third season of “Queer Eye,” the “Fab Five” lifestyle experts leave the Atlanta, Georgia area behind and head into the heartland, setting up camp in Kansas City, Missouri. Their mission remains the same: to spread a little fabulousness across America, and to help people understand what really matters.—‘Turn Up Charlie’Starts streaming: March 15Idris Elba steps away from his usual action movie roles to take on the part of an aging DJ, who makes ends meet by providing child-care to one of his rich and famous friends. Elba (who’s done quite a bit of disc-jockeying himself) also created “Turn Up Charlie.” Though he’s alternated between the big and small screens throughout his career, this is the first time the star of “Luther” and “The Wire” has been the lead in a half-hour, single-camera comedy series.—Also of Interest“Northern Rescue” (March 1), “The Order” (March 7), “Formula 1: Drive to Survive” (March 8), “Immortals” (March 8), “Shadow” (March 8), “If I Hadn’t Met You” (March 15), “Green Door” (March 16), “Peaky Blinders” Season 4 (March 21), “Carlo & Malik” (March 22), “Delhi Crime” (March 22), “Historia de un Crimen: Colosio” (March 22), “Most Beautiful Thing” (March 22), “Selling Sunset” (March 22), “Osmosis” (March 29), “Santa Clarita Diet” Season 3 (March 29), “Traitors” (March 29), “El sabor de las margaritas” (March 31) and “Trailer Park Boys: The Animated Series” (March 31)—‘The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind’Starts streaming: March 1As a teenager, William Kamkwamba researched how to build a power-generating windmill, and used spare parts from around his family’s rural Malawi home to construct a device strong enough to keep several small appliances running. These DIY turbines became an international news story, inspiring a memoir, “The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind,” which has now been adapted into a movie by the actor Chiwetel Ejiofor (who also plays Kamkwamba’s initially skeptical father). This is Ejiofor’s first feature film as a writer and director, and it’s a heartwarming one, meant to inspire younger viewers, as well as to inform them about how a good education can help lift people out of poverty.—‘Hereditary’Starts streaming: March 5One of the more disturbing horror films of recent years, the writer-director Ari Aster’s supernatural thriller “Hereditary” stars Toni Collette as Annie Graham, a rich and successful sculptor whose combative family gradually deteriorates, going from deep dysfunction to open torment by demonic forces. A series of tragedies exposes the Graham family’s dark legacy, as what starts out as a few freaky occurrences around their house blossoms into a full-on haunting. Collette gives an outstanding performance, as a woman who worries that she and her loved ones are inescapably cursed.—‘Juanita’Starts streaming: March 8The amazing Alfre Woodard stars in this adaptation of Sheila Williams’s novel “Dancing on the Edge of the Roof,” playing an exhausted working-class woman who gets tired of supporting her grown kids and decides she needs some adventure. She takes a bus to rural Montana, where she finds romance and becomes a more independent, confident version of herself. The veteran TV actor and director Clark Johnson directs “Juanita,” which plays like a combination of “Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore” and “How Stella Got Her Groove Back.”—‘Triple Frontier’Starts streaming: March 13Although “Triple Frontier” hasn’t gotten as much advance hype as Netflix’s “Roma” or “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs,” on-the-ball film buffs have been eagerly awaiting the latest film from the “All Is Lost” and “A Most Violent Year” director J.C. Chandor. (Chandor also co-wrote the script with “The Hurt Locker” screenwriter Mark Boal.) An A-list cast includes Ben Affleck, Oscar Isaac and Charlie Hunnam, in a story about veterans who become soldiers of fortune, setting out to rob a drug kingpin. If it’s anything like Chandor and Boal’s previous work, “Triple Frontier” should be a well-researched and finely detailed action-adventure, populated by complicated characters.—‘The Highwaymen’Starts streaming: March 29Flipping the script on the classic “Bonnie and Clyde,” the police procedural “The Highwayman” stars Kevin Costner as Frank Hamer, a real-life Texas Ranger who helped lead the hunt for the bank-robbing killers Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow in the 1930s. Woody Harrelson plays a former partner of Hamer who joins the crusade. The film was directed by John Lee Hancock, who previously made the crowd-pleasers “The Rookie” and “The Blind Side.” He’ll be blending true-crime grit with the entertainingly casual interplay of the two leads.—‘Jackie’Starts streaming: March 20Natalie Portman was nominated for an Oscar for playing the former American first lady Jacqueline Kennedy, in director Pablo Larrain and screenwriter Noah Oppenheim’s impressionistic portrait of the events surrounding John F. Kennedy’s funeral. “Jackie” emphasizes how the widow used her power to force President Lyndon B. Johnson’s administration to respect and honor her husband’s legacy. Portman plays all the angles of this character, expressing Jackie’s steeliness, her sense of style, her undisguised emotion and her frustration at being underestimated. This is a richly immersive film that argues for the value of rituals, especially when it comes to grief.—‘The Dirt’Starts streaming: March 22The raucous life and times of the heavy metal superstars Motley Crüe were covered in lurid detail in the 2001 best-seller “The Dirt: Confessions of the World’s Most Notorious Rock Band,” written by the band with the help of reporter Neil Strauss. A movie adaptation, in the works for over a decade, is finally making it to the screen under the guidance of the “Jackass” co-creator Jeff Tremaine, with the rapper Colson “Machine Gun Kelly” Baker playing Motley Crüe’s rowdy drummer Tommy Lee, the “Game of Thrones” villain Iwan Rheon as the guitarist Mick Mars, Douglas Booth as the bassist Nikki Six and Daniel Webber as singer Vince Neil. The emphasis will be on the group’s most outrageous moments, marked by lots of intoxicated excess and infighting.—Also of Interest“Budapest” (March 1), “Colossal” (March 1), “District 9” (March 1), “Mamma Mia!” (March 1), “River’s Edge” (March 1), “You Don’t Mess with the Zohan” (March 1), “Young Adult” (March 1), “Your Son” (March 1), “Lady J” (March 8), “Walk. Ride. Rodeo” (March 8), “The Descendants” (March 10), “Schindler’s List” (March 12), “Tully” (March 12), “Burn Out” (March 15), “Dry Martina” (March 15), “Paskal” (March 15), “Mirage” (March 22), “Lincoln” (March 23), “Don’t Breathe” (March 28), “Bayoneta” (March 29), “15 August” (March 29) and “The Legend of Cocaine Island” (March 29)‘Amy Schumer: Growing’Starts streaming: March 19A lot has happened to the comedian Amy Schumer since her last Netflix stand-up set, “The Leather Special,” debuted in March of 2017. She got married to the chef Chris Fischer and is expecting their first child, after a pregnancy with some debilitating complications. She’s also endured negative reviews for a couple of her feature films (“Snatched” and “I Feel Pretty”), and she saw some of her old jokes rile up activists on both the left and the right. In “Growing,” Schumer spins fresh humor out of her ever-changing situation, addressing marriage and motherhood while also finding time — as usual — to deliver takes on politics and sex.—Also of Interest“Jimmy Carr: The Best of Ultimate Gold Greatest Hits” (March 12)Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael Gold and Nate Schweber[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]As Petland Discounts opened stores across metropolitan New York, the pet store chain was propelled in no small part by a catchy commercial jingle that is now embedded in the region’s collective consciousness.“Petland Discounts,” a nondescript chorus crooned over joyous synthesizer music. “For the best care a pet can get.”Later this year, that may no longer be the case.Last month, just days after the death of its longtime owner, Petland Discounts announced that it may have to close dozens of its stores and lay off workers in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, according to notices filed with each state’s Department of Labor.The company, which for decades has supplied pet owners with everything needed to keep their animal companions well fed, clean and happy, said in the documents that it would have to lay off more than 300 employees across more than 70 locations.Amy Eisenberg, Petland Discounts’ director of public relations and special events, told The Brooklyn Daily Eagle that the company’s closing was not certain. She said Petland Discounts filed the notices in case it needed to close amid the uncertainty caused by the death of its president and founder, Neil Padron.“Neil is the sole proprietor, and the family is still trying to figure everything out,” Ms. Eisenberg, who is Mr. Padron’s daughter, said. Ms. Eisenberg declined to comment for this article.But Mayor Dwayne Warren of Orange, N.J., said in a statement on Wednesday that a national representative of Petland Discounts told him it would “permanently close all company operations,” including the chain’s outpost in his city, because of Mr. Padron’s death.Staff and customers at Petland Discounts stores in Brooklyn on Friday acted as though the closings were all but certain. The fish tanks’ bubbles were still roiling and the cockatiels kept chirping, but the people were glum.Tatiana Vazquez, the Park Slope store’s manager, said she had known about her store’s impending closure for about a week.She said Petland Discounts was struggling to compete with online retailers. Fish food priced $13 at her store, she said, could sell for $5 at the pet store site Chewy.com.Luis Garcia, 48, who has worked at the store in Sunset Park for the past three years, said that initially he was told that the chain could stay open if the owner’s heirs found a buyer. He has since learned that the company will help him find another job, which he saw as a sign that the closure is final.Mr. Garcia added that he considers his workplace “a public zoo.”Mr. Padron, who died Jan. 14 from bladder cancer, started his pet retail business in Queens in 1965. His first store was a tropical fish emporium that sold aquatic creatures, as well as the aquariums and supplies needed to maintain them.As Petland Discounts grew, it expanded its offerings. The chain stocked cat food and dog toys, but also hawked live birds and their cages, reptiles and terrariums, and small animals like hamsters and the wheels that kept them busy.Beyond supplying pets and pet products, Petland offered something for the animal-averse as well: its commercials. Punctuated by an innocuous yet mellifluous jingle, the advertisements left an indelible impression on countless New Yorkers who watched local television in the 1980s and 1990s.Adam Moss, 27, who grew up in Highland Park, N.J., remembered seeing the company’s commercials “everywhere and every day.” When he heard the company might close, he went back to listen to old commercials he had saved and others he found on YouTube.“I lived in the area so long they’ve become iconic to me,” Mr. Moss said. “It was so disappointing. I cried for a while after relistening to some of them.”Mr. Padron showed up often in the commercials. With his strong New York accent and bushy mustache, he stood out on local channels as he walked through the aisles of Petland Discounts stores, promising anything a pet lover could need at a reasonable cost.At the company’s peak, Petland Discounts ran 118 locations across three states. As of this week, it operated 78, Ms. Eisenberg told Newsday.Petland Discounts said in the notices it filed that it would close all of its New Jersey and Connecticut stores by March 19 and its New York locations one month later.Steven Hernandez, 17, said the closure of the store in Sunset Park would complicate his procurement of live crickets for his two pet bearded dragons.If he shops online, he will be forced to buy in bulk, he said, and his apartment cannot accommodate so many crickets.“This will make it a lot harder,” Mr. Hernandez said. “A lot.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kathleen BeckettLONDON — Reza Rashidian could give Dos Equis’ famous and fictional “most interesting man in the world” a run for his money.Mr. Rashidian has been a racecar driver, big game hunter, movie producer, real estate magnate, bon vivant, aspiring poet and artist, and noted collector — of cars, 19th-century animal sculptures, and watches.It took him more than 20 years of dedicated hunting to amass what he called “the ultimate” dive watch collection, featuring what several industry experts have called one of the rarest watches in existence: Rolex’s Deepsea Special Number One. (The collection recently was detailed in the book “A Journey Into the Deep” by John Goldberger and Daniel Bourn.)As Mr. Rashidian is considered a friend of Phillips auction house, and its London office on Berkeley Square was a convenient place to take a look at some of his scores of watches, we met on a recent springlike afternoon. And Mr. Rashidian explained why, after years of collecting all manner of watches, he decided to focus on Rolex stainless steel dive watches. “These watches went to the greatest depths on earth,” he said, with divers risking their lives and equipment. The watches “are firmly a part of the human condition.”The collector witnessed another side of the human condition firsthand as a young boy growing up in Tehran. In 1978 his father, who was in banking and real estate, sensed unrest and moved the family to a home they had in London, “just for the summer,” Mr. Rashidian said. But the Shah of Iran was deposed in January 1979 and the family — its banks confiscated and some of its friends killed — never left England. Mr. Rashidian, now 52, lived in London most of his life before moving to Switzerland three years ago, trading the city for the mountains.Nature was an important part of the collector’s early years, too. When he was 5 he started hunting with his uncle. “It wasn’t about killing,” he said, but being outdoors and “experiencing nature in the rain, the snow, in all its guises.” His shoots might have taken him to Ethiopia or Tajikistan for weeks at a time, sleeping in tents or shacks. “You have to love the outdoors,” he said.Hunting led him to create the cultishly popular Pro Hunter watch in 2006 after Rolex refused to customize one of its watches with a black case and glass (to eliminate reflection), fixed lugs and a NATO strap (to replace a bracelet that, Mr. Rashidian said, “you can’t crawl with, it digs in.”) So he developed his own timepiece.Soon others wanted one, and owners now include President Bill Clinton; Antoine Arnault of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton; François-Henri Pinault of Kering; Prince Pavlos of Greece; and Mr. Rashidian’s friends Tim Jeffries, owner of Hamiltons gallery in London, and the actor Jonathan Rhys Meyers.Mr. Rashidian now is no longer involved in the business. And he no longer hunts. Not for big game, anyway, but he said he used some of the same strategies when collecting. A hunt starts with research, which “interests me more than the ownership,” he said, a testament to his years studying history at London and Oxford universities. Another of the joys: “When you collect you find people with similar enthusiasm, and you share it,” at dinners and events where he meets other watch fans.His love of watches began early: His father, who died when Mr. Rashidian was 13, gave him his first watch. Mr. Rashidian opened a case and displayed a Rolex Oyster Perpetual Datejust, with a strap now too small to circle his wrist. “This put the thought in my head. This is where it started,” he said.Next, his mother gave him a gold Rolex Day-Date Oysterquartz for his 18th birthday, and soon after Mr. Rashidian made his own first purchase, a Rolex stainless steel GMT Master. (He raised the sleeve of his Hackett suit jacket to show that he still wears it.)In his 20s, when he started collecting watches, he bought some contemporary models like Patek Philippes, Audemars Piguets and Breguets. And Rolexes, which he said he preferred to wear because they stood up to constant use and were “more approachable, and stainless steel is much more approachable.” He still has some of these early purchases in his collection.The more he learned about watches — especially about their histories, he said — the more he gravitated toward vintage ones. And few watches can rival the story of the Rolex Deep Sea Special Number One: In 1953, the watch, which has a signature bubble-shaped crystal, was strapped to the outside of the Trieste bathyscaph before the research vessel went two miles deep in the waters off Italy’s Ponza Island, withstanding pressure of 8,820 pounds per square inch.The bathyscaph and the watch later went down even farther, to nearly 2.3 miles deep. As a result, Rolex marketing began making the brand’s claim to dive watch supremacy and, by extension, sports watch dominance.Mr. Rashidian had brought the Deepsea Special Number One with him, and carefully removed the timepiece from its special case to display its unusual 35-millimeter thickness and distinctive domed crystal. He placed it on the table with the other watches he had brought. “There,” he said in a “ta-da” moment, “is the most famous Rolex dive watch in the world sitting next to the dinky one I got as a boy.”Mr. Rashidian recently sold two of his 36 dive watches featured in the book at a Phillips auction in Geneva: a Rolex Single Red Sea-Dweller, which once belonged to the celebrated diver Robert Palmer Bradley, and a Rolex Sea-Dweller made for the Sultan of Oman, with his name, Qaboos, in Arabic on the dial.He put those two up for sale because, after having amassed and documented what he considers the ultimate dive watch collection, he now is contemplating starting on something new and is deep into research.He won’t say what his next focus will be, (“don’t reveal your hand” is one of his strategies) but it will be something special, as he said collectors should “buy something unique or rare that has intrinsic or personal value.”“I need to find new areas that excite me,” he said, and admitted that patience is not his strong suit, and apparently never has been.When he was a student at the British public school Haileybury, he was captain of the rugby team and looked down his nose at cricket. “I didn’t have the patience to play that game. It seems like nothing happens for a very long time, and then suddenly people start to clap. It’s not in my personality. I’m less cricket, more rugby.” And ready to score his next great collection.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jeremy EgnerLOS ANGELES — “We got a plane!”Sitcom showrunners have no shortage of logistical worries, but air traffic isn’t generally among them. That is, unless you happen to be shooting your sitcom in a backyard beside the Burbank airport.And so it was that Josh Malmuth, the creator of the new sitcom “Abby’s,” stared at the sky one night last fall as his production ground to a halt, girding himself for another shoot to be interrupted every 15 minutes or so by an assistant producer with word of a plane, or a helicopter, or perhaps a drone.“And so it begins,” he muttered.Such are the wages of innovation. “Abby’s,” which debuts March 28 on NBC, is a 10-episode multicamera sitcom that is shot almost entirely outside, a simple-sounding tweak that nevertheless turns one of the hoariest of television conventions into something that, as far as anyone can tell, has never really been done before.Natalie Morales (“Parks and Recreation,” “White Collar”) stars as Abby, an ex-Marine who turns her backyard into a neighborhood watering hole, where an array of quirky regulars, including Neil Flynn (“The Middle”), Nelson Franklin (“Veep”) and Jessica Chaffin (“Search Party”), pass their evenings and tee up one another’s punch lines.It’s the same basic setup that has undergirded any number of workplace shows and other comedies based on improvised families. This includes perhaps the greatest of all sitcoms, “Cheers,” which also happens to be the series against which all other bar comedies will be measured.“The ‘Cheers’ comparisons have been what everybody talks about, and listen, we’ll take it,” Morales said. “That being said, there have been a lot of medical shows, a lot of law shows, and people hang out in bars a lot. So we were like, ‘I think it’s fine to do another bar show.’”The concept was inspired by Bacchanal, a New Orleans wine bar that consists largely of a graceful courtyard (and which figured in a rainy subplot in “Treme”). Malmuth, a San Diego native, moved the concept to his hometown and convinced Michael Schur, one of the most prolific sitcom makers in show business these days, to help him develop it.At first glance, Schur would seem to be an unlikely choice for a multicamera sitcom, the classic form — generally consisting of actors performing on a contained set before multiple cameras and a studio audience — that defined TV comedy for decades, from “I Love Lucy” to “All In the Family” to “The Cosby Show” to “Seinfeld” and “Friends.”Schur’s tightly serialized, philosophically inquisitive “The Good Place” is widely acclaimed for its narrative ambition, and the earlier filmic, single-camera shows he worked on, like “The Office” and “Parks and Recreation,” were instrumental in creating the perception that the multicamera format, with its stagy setups and broadly telegraphed jokes, was a relic of a simpler TV era. Even CBS’s soon-to-depart “Big Bang Theory,” TV’s top-rated show for much of the past decade and the longest-running multicamera sitcom in history, went single-cam for its spinoff, “Young Sheldon.”But Schur was intrigued by the idea, so he and Malmuth hopped in a golf cart and drove around the Universal lot in search of an ideal spot. They found it on the former Wisteria Lane, where the stars of “Desperate Housewives” once backstabbed (and front-stabbed, and actually stabbed) their way to ratings gold.After NBC gave the go-ahead, an outdoor studio was built behind the house that once belonged to Edie (the desperate housewife played by Nicollette Sheridan). The goal was to split the difference between a conventional set — with water- and windproof lighting rigs and a smooth, level concrete slab for easy camera movement — and a backyard, with strung lights, fire pits and largely unobstructed natural elements.“There’s an episode when you see Jessica’s hair blowing a little more than it probably would, but that’s part of being outside,” said Franco Bario, the co-executive producer who oversaw construction of the set. “The more it looks like a stage, the less important it is that we’re out here.”The set includes bleachers for the just over 100 people who provide what amounts to an outdoor laugh track — each episode opens by noting, in a nod to sitcom intros of yore, that “‘Abby’s’ was filmed before a live outdoor audience.” To reinforce the notion, the cameras will occasionally pull back before and after commercial breaks to show the crowd and set.“You see the audience; you see that we’re, like, literally on the side of a cliff in Universal Studios; you see the Los Angeles city lights; and then you see us on this weird little outdoor set, acting,” Morales said later. “It’s going to feel familiar, but it’s also going to feel very novel.”Schur said, “We worried a little about breaking the fourth wall, but the very premise of a multicam is constantly breaking the fourth wall — you’re hearing humans laughing.”Though they have plenty of well-regarded sitcoms between them — Malmuth was a writer and producer for “New Girl” and “Superstore” — the theatrical setting harkens back to earlier in their careers, when Malmuth wrote for the stage and Schur for “Saturday Night Live.”But they weren’t necessarily looking to reinvent an old format, they said in a joint interview shortly before the shoot, in another house up Wisteria Lane.“The objective wasn’t, let’s set out to rejuvenate the medium,” Schur said. “The objective was let’s execute this idea as well as we can, and then this is how we’re backing into that.”“We don’t want to do it on a stage with AstroTurf, so what can we do?” Malmuth said.That said, there is a replica of the bar set on a nearby soundstage to use for rehearsals and as a weather contingency plan. (“Abby’s” made it through its first season without a rainout.)But other things, like the menagerie of critters in the surrounding hills, you just have to deal with.The night I was there, a raccoon got into the craft services tent — “That’s a first,” Malmuth said when I told him — and skunks have been known to wander onto the set. Crickets are also an issue, though sound editors have to add them as often as subtract, for continuity’s sake. During one break in the filming, a baby gopher scampered down the driveway and blindly caromed off several people’s shoes before weaving its way back into the bushes.“Occasionally packs of wild coyotes come out of the hills and just maul an actor,” Schur said. (He was joking.)The odd mauling aside, a general feeling of festivity prevails on the set, with the crowd, crickets and flickering fires coalescing into something more akin to a summer-camp talent show than a network sitcom.During yet another chopper break, music thumped as a jovial M.C. whipped up the audience, who munched boxed dinners and huddled in blankets in the crisp (for Los Angeles) November night.“Apparently these planes and helicopters don’t care that we’re trying to make a TV show!” the M.C. said, and then pointed out Schur, eating onion rings by one of the cameras, who waved at the crowd. Leonard Ouzts, who plays one of the regulars, mingled with extras as production assistants lugged an enormous tuna onto the set for a scene involving an elaborate fish tale.“There are a bunch of jokes about how we’re going to have to shoo cats away and it’s going to start to stink, and those might just be prophetic,” Schur said. “If coyotes are ever actually going to come out of the hills, it’s going to happen tonight. So buckle up.”A picture caption that ran with an earlier version of this article misidentified the title of Michael Schur. He is an executive producer for “Abby’s,” not a creator.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alan YuhasThe Canadian government said on Wednesday that it would withdraw up to half of its diplomatic staff in Havana, as it disclosed that another employee had fallen ill with the mysterious symptoms that have affected dozens of Americans and Canadians stationed in Cuba.Since early 2017, American and Canadian government employees in Cuba have suffered strange symptoms such as dizziness, insomnia, hearing loss and nausea when using a computer. Canada’s government said that, in all, 14 Canadian employees, spouses and dependents have been affected.Global Affairs Canada, the nation’s foreign ministry, said that after the last confirmed case of unusual symptoms, in November 2018, Canadian staff members in Havana undertook additional medical testing. Those tests confirmed “an additional employee has symptoms consistent with those of previously affected employees,” the ministry’s statement said.Though the Canadian government had started “revised security measures,” it said, “we have decided to reduce by up to half the number of Canadian staff posted to Havana.”The Canadian Embassy will continue to function with consular services and an ambassador, the ministry said, but some programs may be affected. It did not respond to questions about current or future staffing numbers.There was no evidence that Canadian travelers are at risk, the ministry said.So far, 26 Americans have been affected with similar maladies, according to the State Department, and doctors who examined some of the Americans said they had suffered inner-ear damage.But neither the United States nor Canada has determined a cause for the symptoms, leading to speculation that some kind of microwave weapon may have been deployed against the diplomats, who have described hearing a strange, high-pitched sound, often accompanied by a sensation of intense pressure.Two scientists have also suggested that a species of loud, droning cricket may have been responsible for the noise, although its sounds are rapid-fire pulses while the diplomats described an erratic sound.The United States has also withdrawn personnel from its embassy in Havana, reducing its operations to a bare-bones staff of about two dozen. And in October 2017 the Trump administration expelled over a dozen Cuban diplomats over the illnesses, after issuing a warning to Americans not to travel to the island.Cuba has denied any responsibility for the illnesses, and condemned the expulsions of diplomats as a “hasty, inappropriate and unthinking” decision that was motivated by politics.While the Trump administration said those expulsions did not signal a change in policy toward Cuba, it has taken a more hostile stance to Havana than the Obama administration, which began normalizing relations with the old Cold War foe.An earlier version of this article gave an incorrect date for the United States’ expulsion of Cuban diplomats. It was in October 2017, not October 2018.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPrime Minister Narendra Modi and his party seem to be exploiting the deaths of paramilitary soldiers in a terrorist attack for political gains ahead of national elections.By Hartosh Singh BalMr. Bal is a journalist.On Feb. 14, a 19-year-old drove a vehicle filled with explosives into a convoy of Indian paramilitary forces in Indian-administered Kashmir and killed 49 soldiers. Jaish-e-Muhammad, or the Army of Muhammad, a Pakistan-based terrorist group, claimed responsibility for the attack.Over the past five years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party has governed India and been part of the local government in Kashmir as well, thus controlling India’s policy approaches to the disputed, conflict-torn region. Mr. Modi embraced a militaristic approach and shunned a political process involving dialogue with the separatists in Kashmir. Consequently, the number of civilian and security personnel killed in the region have increased, and a growing number of young Kashmiris, like Adil Dar, the 19-year-old suicide bomber, joined militant groups.These are inconvenient facts for Mr. Modi, who has continually attacked India’s opposition parties for being soft on terror and compromising national security. As the deaths of the soldiers come three months before a general election, an honest evaluation of Mr. Modi’s failed policy should have led to him to being held accountable.Such questions, naturally, receded into the background in the immediate aftermath of the Kashmir bombing, in a national outpouring of grief. Before those pertinent questions would return to the national conversation, Mr. Modi spun the bad news to his advantage by turning the grief into an emotive and prolonged commemoration of the deaths of the soldiers.As Indian television networks followed the coffins of the slain troops draped in the Indian flag on their final journey home, Mr. Modi’s party directed its senior leaders to attend the cremations, which were telecast live. The funerals became occasions for patriotic avowals, some genuine, some orchestrated, as politicians sought to ensure they were part of the frame.Mr. Modi ratcheted up the rhetoric against Pakistan and suggested that India would retaliate militarily. “Security forces have been given complete freedom, the blood of the people is boiling,” he said. On social media and television networks, retired military generals, such as G.D. Bakshi, echoed Mr. Modi’s words and described the bombing in Kashmir as an act of war. “They started it but we will finish it,” he said.The venerable Cricket Club of India, a colonial institution founded in 1933, decided to do its part by draping a portrait of Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, which had been put up to honor his cricketing feats in the last century. The mourning took on a more sinister note as gangs of young men started parading the streets of many Indian cities, including New Delhi, shouting slogans directed at Pakistan and “anti-nationals” — the preferred term of the Hindu nationalists for perceived foes and undesirables ranging from liberals to Muslims.Several Hindu nationalist affiliates of Mr. Modi’s party led a campaign that targeted students from Kashmir studying in educational institutions across India. They managed to extract promises from a few colleges that they would not admit Kashmiri students. The tone and tenor of the marches and the threats to Kashmiri students were not lost even on Mr. Modi’s own allies. In an editorial in its party newspaper, Shiv Sena, the Mumbai-based Hindu nationalist party, cautioned the prime minister that “there were political allegations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi could wage a small-scale war to win elections …. The rulers should not behave in a manner that these allegations gain credence.”Mr. Modi’s political use of the deaths of “martyrs” is not new to India, but we haven’t seen it at such a scale since India and Pakistan fought a limited war over Kashmir in 1999. In the past two decades, Indian security forces have periodically been targets of violent insurgent attacks, some causing even larger numbers of casualties, but the grief has run its normal course.Mr. Modi and his party seem to be working on a template of exploiting calamitous deaths that they have used before. In February 2002, soon after he took over as chief minister of the western Indian state of Gujarat, a train carrying Hindu religious volunteers was allegedly set on fire in the town of Godhra by a group of Muslims. Fifty-nine people died. Mr. Modi ensured the bodies of the dead were taken to the Ahmedabad, the largest city in the state, and paraded through the city. Violence broke out soon after. Hindu mobs fueled by incendiary rhetoric from leaders of organizations affiliated with the Bharatiya Janata Party, targeted homes and businesses owned by Muslims. Over a thousand people were killed, over 700 of them Muslims.In his campaign for the state elections held a few months after the violence, Mr. Modi barely disguised his hatred and contempt for the Muslim minority, describing them as a demographic threat to India and seeking to connect them with Pakistan. The insurgency in Kashmir, which is the only Muslim majority state in the country, is often invoked in the same fashion by Mr. Modi's Hindu nationalist party.Mr. Modi is at his political best with an electoral campaign run on sectarian and polarizing themes. Before the attack in Kashmir, he was facing an opposition campaign dominated by questions about unemployment being the highest in 45 years and distress in Indian villages. His party had already lost state elections in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, partly as a result of an acute farm crisis in India.This was the campaign that the Congress Party and other opposition parties were looking to fight; this is the campaign that Mr. Modi is seeking to avoid with the emotive call of martyrdom. Ironically, a vast majority of the soldiers who died were drawn from India’s lower and middle castes with largely rural backgrounds, a far cry from the upper-caste, urban Hindu voters who are Mr. Modi’s most ardent and hawkish supporters.What has largely gone unspoken in the aftermath of the Kashmir attack is that the C.R.P.F., the paramilitary force these young men joined, is heavily understaffed and underequipped, a stark contrast to Mr. Modi’s bluster on national security.In 1999, I was working as a reporter in the northern state of Punjab. I covered the cremations of soldiers who had died in Kargil in the war between India and Pakistan. Each body draped in the Indian flag was accompanied by a soldier from the fallen man’s unit. Those men were angry with the government and willing to speak on record with their names and ranks about being been sent to battle in the icy Himalayan mountains without proper equipment to shield them from the cold and the snow. When I wrote their stories, my editors refused to publish them and argued that it was not the time to report such things because they were damaging to the “national interest.”In the rhetoric of martyrdom that prevails in Mr. Modi’s India, editors across the country are making similar calls and leaving out inconvenient facts and questions. It may or may not be in the national interest, but it certainly is in Mr. Modi’s interest.Hartosh Singh Bal, the author of “Waters Close Over Us: A Journey Along the Narmada,” is the political editor of The Caravan magazine.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Scott TobiasEvery month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of TV shows and movies to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for March, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes schedules without giving notice.‘Eighth Grade’Starts streaming: March 1The ordeals of adolescent girlhood have been chronicled many times on screen, but not since Todd Solondz’s “Welcome to the Dollhouse” have they been as acutely registered as they are in Bo Burnham’s directorial debut. “Eighth Grade” doesn’t share the sourness of Solondz’s film, however, empathizing strongly with Kayla (Elsie Fisher) as she posts would-be viral videos, throws herself into awkward social situations and rolls her eyes at her overly attentive single father (Josh Hamilton), who doesn’t know how to help her. Burnham is particularly smart about integrating social media and messaging into Kayla’s story, and showing the ways they reinforce her isolation and desire to connect.‘La La Land’Starts streaming: March 1In the aftermath of its false Best Picture win against “Moonlight,” it’s been easy to forget how much momentum and good will Damien Chazelle’s throwback musical carried into Oscar night and how big a shock it was that it lost. But one of the benefits of “La La Land” not winning Best Picture is that it’s no longer freighted by the “importance” that goes along with the title. Chazelle’s musical pastiche about the Hollywood romance between an actress (Emma Stone) and a jazz pianist (Ryan Gosling) was always meant to be a light evocation of Gene Kelly and Ginger Rogers vehicles, coupled with the bittersweet quality of “The Umbrellas of Cherbourg,” and it’s now free to be enjoyed on those terms.‘The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind’Starts streaming: March 1The superb character actor Chiwetel Ejiofor makes his directorial debut with this adaptation of the best-selling memoir about a Malawian teenager who takes it upon himself to save his impoverished village. Maxwell Simba stars as William Kamkwamba, a boy who loses his education when his family can no longer afford to send him to school, but who become an autodidact to bring electricity and water to his drought-ravaged area. Using scrap materials and science textbooks, he attempts to construct his own wind turbine. Ejiofor gives himself a key supporting role as Kamkwamba’s father, who greets his son’s initiative with a mix of pride and practical concern.‘Juanita’Starts streaming: March 8Alfre Woodard has been acting in movies and on television for 40 years, and she’s as vibrant and appealing as ever in “Juanita,” a late-in-life road movie/romance that has been constructed around the title character’s range and adventurousness. Adapted from Sheila Williams’s novel “Dancing on the Edge of the Roof,” the film stars Woodard as a middle-aged woman who follows a one-way Greyhound bus ticket from the Columbus, Ohio, projects to Montana, where she turns around a struggling diner and finds refuge (and love). But on a journey intended to liberate her, she worries about being tied down someplace else.‘Triple Frontier’Starts streaming: March 13Netflix’s most prominent — and promising — film release in March brings together J.C. Chandor, the superb director of “All Is Lost” and “A Most Violent Year,” and Mark Boal, the screenwriter of “The Hurt Locker” and “Zero Dark Thirty,” for the story of an audacious heist that’s somewhere between greed and justice. Oscar Isaac, Ben Affleck, Charlie Hunnam, Pedro Pascal and Garrett Hedlund star as former Special Forces operatives who attempt to steal millions in cash from a South American drug cartel. The good news for them? The authorities won’t care about a cartel getting robbed. The bad news? The cartel definitely will.‘The Death of Stalin’Starts streaming: March 22With “The Thick of It,” “In the Loop” and “Veep,” Armando Iannucci firmly established himself as the most scabrous political satirist of the 21st century, but he goes back to the middle of the 20th for “The Death of Stalin,” which digs into the chaos and folly that follow the death of a tyrannical dictator. The operatives surrounding Joseph Stalin in 1953 turn out to be just the sort of inept, backbiting sycophants that populate Iannucci’s other comedies. What’s different about “The Death of Stalin,” beyond its sumptuous period trappings, is how well it captures the fear and paranoia that seized the Soviet Union during Stalin’s rule and threw the country into a period of uncertainty after his death.‘The Dirt’Starts streaming: March 22Even by the hard-partying, substance-abusing, hotel-trashing standards of ’80s hair-metal outfits, the members of Mötley Crüe were notoriously rambunctious, turning world tours into grotesque bacchanals that occasionally veered into the dangerous and self-destructive. Their collaborative autobiography, “The Dirt: Confessions of the World’s Most Notorious Rock Band,” is a bracing read that chases stories of shocking indulgence with sobering notes about addiction and a deadly car crash. The Netflix adaptation was directed by Jeff Tremaine, the man responsible for the “Jackass” movies, which seems like the perfect match for this material. “Bohemian Rhapsody” this is not.‘Kubo and the Two Strings’Starts streaming: March 23The Portland-based production house Laika has produced some of the most distinctive and sophisticated animated features of the last decade, using a 3-D stop-motion process to add tactility to odd little films like “Coraline,” “ParaNorman” and “The Boxtrolls.” Laika’s “Kubo and the Two Strings” enters the world of ancient Japan, where a boy wielding a lute-like instrument called a samisen tells stories out of dancing origami papers, but whose own life is destined to become the stuff of legend. His quest to stop the evil Moon King (Ralph Fiennes) is notably abstract for a mainstream family film, but it’s mitigated by kid-friendly team-ups like a talking monkey (Charlize Theron) and a human-insect hybrid (Matthew McConaughey).‘The Highwaymen’Starts streaming: March 29Over 30 years ago, Kevin Costner popped on a period fedora and tracked down the country’s most infamous criminals in “The Untouchables.” He’s doing it again in “The Highwaymen,” this time as a quick-triggered Texas Ranger who comes out of retirement to catch Bonnie and Clyde. He and an ex-partner, played by Woody Harrelson, are given maximum latitude as special investigators to end a robbery and killing spree that has left 13 cops dead, along with many others. Telling the Bonnie and Clyde story from a lawman’s perspective sounds a little square, given the groundbreaking swagger of the 1967 classic starring Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway, but there’s something to be said for playing a good story straight.‘Snowpiercer’Starts streaming: March 31The brilliant Korean genre director Bong Joon Ho (“The Host,” “Mother”) made his English-language debut with this futuristic “Ship of Fools,” in which the planet has been rendered uninhabitable and what remains of humankind is packed onto a train to nowhere. But the rules of society still apply: The have-nots are relegated to the dingy back cars of the train while the wealthy elite occupy spaces near the front, triggering a class war that threatens to send them off the tracks. Bong’s diverse cast of American, British and Korean actors gives “Snowpiercer” the right international flavor, but it’s Tilda Swinton who dominates as a Margaret Thatcher type who’s a merciless enforcer of the status quo.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Subscribe to our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]‘Cricket Fever: Mumbai Indians’Starts streaming: March 1In December, the eight-episode Netflix documentary series “Sunderland ’Til I Die” proved to be a fascinating look at a professional sports team during a serious inflection point in its history, when it was in danger of two straight relegations to lesser leagues. Now Netflix’s latest sports-doc series, “Cricket Fever: Mumbai Indians,” goes behind the scenes of a more successful franchise, the Mumbai Indians, as it tries to follow a championship year in the Indian Premier League. That’s hardly the adversity faced by Sunderland, but in the cricket-crazed city of Mumbai, the pressure to repeat is enormous.‘Formula 1: Drive to Survive’Starts streaming: March 8The life and death of the Formula One racer Ayrton Senna was the subject of a uniquely compelling documentary, “Senna,” told entirely through archival footage of interviews, family videos and hair-raising moments from the racetrack. Now a producer from that film, James Gay-Rees, has returned to the same world with “Formula 1: Drive to Survive,” a 10-episode series about the athletes competing for the 2018 F.I.A. Formula One Championship, which starts in Melbourne, Australia, and ends in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Maneuvering lightweight vehicles at 200 m.p.h., the drivers risk their necks every time they turn the ignition, but they are able to check their daredevil impulses through intense focus, discipline and training.‘Arrested Development: Season 5B’Starts streaming: March 15Even before discussion of Jeffrey Tambor’s alleged abusiveness on set derailed promotional efforts for the first half of its fifth season, “Arrested Development” has struggled to find the same absurdist groove of its original Fox run in its Netflix revival, despite enjoying fewer creative restrictions. Yet there’s always the lingering hope that Mitchell Hurwitz’s comic serial about the life and crimes of the Bluth family could turn things around. “Season 5B” pivots around courtroom drama, as Buster (Tony Hale) stands trial for the murder of Lucille 2 (Liza Minnelli).‘Turn Up Charlie’Starts streaming: March 15Idris Elba isn’t an actor known for his comic chops, but for a seven-episode run on the fifth season of “The Office,” his seriousness and chiseled good looks were turned against him, exposing a well-disguised ineptitude. Created by Elba and Gary Reich, the British comedy series “Turn Up Charlie” works a similar dynamic, casting Elba as a hapless DJ and bachelor whose weaknesses are further revealed when he has to play daddy to his famous friend’s troublemaking daughter (Frankie Hervey). Elba does some DJ-ing on the side in real life, too, so at least that part of the show will stand to be authentic.‘Delhi Crime’Starts streaming: March 22In 2012, a 23-year-old physiotherapy intern was gang raped and fatally beaten by six men on a private bus in South Delhi, a crime so horrific that thousands of protesters demanded (and received) legislative action to protect women against rape culture in India. The attack has been dramatized before, poorly, in Deepa Mehta’s 2016 docudrama “Anatomy of Violence,” but the seven-part series “Delhi Crime,” by the Indo-Canadian filmmaker Richie Mehta, was received more warmly out of Sundance. Mehta’s series deals with the police effort to investigate the crime, focusing on a female officer (Shefali Shah) with a personal interest in bringing the perpetrators to justice.Also of interest: “A Monster Calls” (March 1), “Dog Days” (March 1), “Space Jam” (March 1), “The Dark Knight Rises” (March 1), “Patriot Act With Hasan Minhaj: Volume 2” (March 3), “Christopher Robin” (March 5), “Forgetting Sarah Marshall” (March 6), “Lucy” (March 6), “After Life” (March 8), “Girl” (March 15), “Love, Death & Robots” (March 15), “Selling Sunset” (March 22), “The Legend of Cocaine Island” (March 29)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIn terrifying synchrony, baby stink bugs all but explode to life.By Heather MurphyLong before an ordinary chicken egg became an Instagram star, Jun Endo, a Ph.D. student at Kyoto University, sat gazing intently at another egg. This egg was much smaller, roughly the size of a sesame seed, and contained a stink bug.The mystery was this: When the egg finally hatched, it would do so virtually in unison with all the other stink bug eggs clumped around it. How? What signaled an egg on one side of the brood to hatch so soon after an egg on the other side?Synchronized hatching may be common in the animal world; scientist can’t say for sure, as the phenomenon is not well studied. Sometimes bird eggs in the same clutch hatch individually, in a series that can unfold over more than a day. The broods of some stink bug species hatch over several hours. Mr. Endo’s brood belonged to the brown marmorated stink bug, Halyomorpha halys, which is known for wreaking havoc on farms and in suburban homes across the United States. Through a series of experiments, he attempted to identify the cue that got the eggs hatching. “At first I had to consider every possibility — a sound, volatile chemical, vibration and pressure,” he said in an email. It was only when he played a vibration at a specific frequency, and the eggs promptly hatched, that he knew he was on the right track. Additional experiments confirmed that the vibration — brief, barely audible and recorded from a hatching stink-bug egg — signaled other eggs to follow suit. The discovery, described in a paper in Current Biology earlier this month, resonated not only with the stink-bug researchers of the world, but also with life-science researchers focused on biotremology, the science of vibrations.“Not many people know about it, but they should,” said Peggy Hill, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Tulsa, and author of a book called “Vibrational Communication in Animals.” In recent years, scientists have paid increasing attention to the role that vibrations play in the lives of elephants, kangaroos, crickets and many other animals.“What makes it cool is that it’s something we can’t hear in the air,” Dr. Hill said. “But it’s an essential communication cue or signal.”Hatching in unison is an advantage for the marmorated stink bug, said Hideharu Numata, a biologist at Kyoto University and an author of the new study. The hatched larvae won’t eat other larvae, but they will eat the unhatched, so slowpokes risk being devoured by their new siblings. Last one out is an eaten egg.Dr. Numata has studied stink bugs for 30 years, and in that time has come to tolerate the stink. “I don’t like this smell particularly, but I feel it’s not so bad,” he said in an email. “Stink bugs sometimes smell like some fruits.”Heather Murphy is a science reporter. She writes about the intersection of technology and our genes and how bio-tech innovations affect the way we live.  @heathertal AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFurther readingChilled to the bone? Warm up by dipping into one of these books — set in blazing hot summers, during heat waves, even in the desert.By Tina JordanAs the mercury plunges, you could pile on extra sweaters, huddle beneath an afghan, drink hot tea — or you could get lost in a book that will transport you to sunny, sweaty places.“It is the third month of the drought. For ten days now the heat has passed 90ºF. There has been no rain — not for days, not for weeks, not for months. No clouds pass, slow and stately as ships, over the roofs of these houses.”“Cujo lay on the floor of the garage, in semi-gloom. It was hot in here but it was even worse outside … and the daylight outside was too bright. It had never been before; in fact, he had never really noticed the quality of the light before. But he was noticing now.”“The pall of dust which came with every summer filled the silent air, and the sun thrust its fingers through the fine-strung particles so that it seemed the whole world had turned to gold and purple. Streaky clouds rimmed in brilliant fire poked silver streamers across the great bloody ball which hung just above the trees of the far paddocks.”“It is hot. The summer is by now becoming legendary, a news item in its own right. Toppling records, incipient drought. Swarms of jellyfish in the channel, basking sharks off the Cornish coast, ice-cream sales at an all-time high, melanoma warnings with the weather forecast. One summer’s day rolls into the next, indistinguishable days in which it is light still at ten o’clock, then the sky starts to drain and within a short while it is a strange dark electric blue, and the trees and hedges are shadows in a monochrome landscape.”“The crickets were screaming on Thursday and the sky, stripped of blue, was white hot at eleven in the morning.”“Without a sea breeze or cool water, the heat was incredible. By the time I reached the waterfall my whole body was prickling with sweat.” “It was 3:00 and the heat was overpowering. I was lying on the sand half asleep when I heard Cyril calling to me. I opened my eyes; the sky was white, shimmering with heat. … I was nailed to the sand by all the strength of the summer heat — my arms were like lead, my mouth dry.”“Their little freighter had spewed them out from its comfortable maw the day before onto the hot rocks, sweating and scowling with anxiety, where for a long time no one had paid them the slightest attention. As he stood there in the burning sun, he had been tempted to go back on board …” “They … emerged onto a terrace of dazzling white stones from which the heat rose in a blast.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGlobal healthMinuscule particles coated with anti-seizure drugs seem to halt microbes that feed on brain tissue.By Emily BaumgaertnerThe brain-eating monsters are real enough — they lurk in freshwater ponds in much of the United States. Now scientists may have discovered a new way to kill them. Minuscule silver particles coated with anti-seizure drugs one day may be adapted to halt Naegleria fowleri, an exceptionally lethal microbe that invades through the sinuses and feeds on human brain tissue.The research, published in the journal Chemical Neuroscience, showed that repurposing seizure medicines and binding them to silver might kill the amoebae while sparing human cells. Scientists hope the findings will lay an early foundation for a quick cure.“Here is a nasty, often devastating infection that we don’t have great treatments for,” said Dr. Edward T. Ryan, the director of the global infectious diseases division of Massachusetts General Hospital, who was not involved in the research. “This work is clearly in the early stages, but it’s an interesting take.”Infections with brain-eating amoebae are rare but almost always deadly. Since 1962, only four of 143 known victims in the United States have survived, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More than half of all cases have occurred in Texas and Florida, where the microscopic organisms thrive in warm pond water.“The classic case is a 10-year-old boy who goes swimming in the South in the summer and starts to get a headache a few days later,” Dr. Ryan said. The amoebae’s feeding causes meningoencephalitis — or swelling of the brain and nearby tissues — and is often misdiagnosed.“When it comes to treatment, doctors often end up throwing in the kitchen sink,” he added.Patients typically are given antimicrobial drugs in extremely high doses in order to break through the body’s protective blood-brain barrier. Many suffer severe side effects.“The biggest challenge is finding a drug that can actually reach the right region of the brain,” said Dr. Ayaz Anwar, a researcher at Sunway University in Malaysia, who led the new study. “We need a drug that can trick the body into letting it through — and we know that anti-seizure drugs can overcome that barrier.”Dr. Anwar and his team first treated the microbes with diazepam, phenobarbitone and phenytoin, three anti-seizure drugs already approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The amoebae proved sensitive. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The investigators then bound the medications to microscopic carriers: silver particles only 50 to 100 nanometers in diameter, or less than one-thousandth the width of a strand of hair.In laboratory testing, each of the three drug-silver combinations decreased the number of amoebae cells over time. Diazepam in particular was at least twice as effective when combined with silver.“It was an exciting realization, that’s for sure,” he said.Dr. Anwar said he planned to test the approach in animal models using crickets, cockroaches and mice.“It’s an important first step in coming up with possible treatments for a very difficult-to-treat condition,” said Dr. Paul Sax, an infectious disease specialist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School. “But this is still in a petri dish — it’s a long way off from being implemented.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Salman MasoodISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Pakistan said on Tuesday that it would take new steps to seize and freeze the assets of people and militant groups who are on the United Nations’ list of designated terrorists, after months of international criticism.The announcement came as India and Pakistan were still on edge after a suicide bombing in Kashmir last month led to a military clash between the two. And last month, a financial watchdog group, the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force, said Pakistan was still not taking enough concrete steps to curb financing and money laundering by terrorist groups.Pakistan risks being blacklisted by the task force, which would open the door to international sanctions that would be devastating to the country’s already teetering economy.Pakistan’s military has long been accused by its neighbors and Western countries of cultivating militant groups to use as proxies, including the Afghan Taliban and Lashkar-e-Taiba, which was widely accused of orchestrating the 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed more than 160 people.The financial task force demanded more action in particular against Lashkar-e-Taiba and against Jaish-e-Muhammad, a militant group that claimed responsibility for the Feb. 14 bombing in Kashmir that killed 40 Indian paramilitary soldiers.“There is a total consensus across all state institutions that these religious militias of all kinds represent a liability from the 1990s, a baggage of the past,” Moeed Pirzada, an analyst and television news host who has been briefed by civilian and military officials, said in an interview on Tuesday. “They don’t serve any purpose and need to be absorbed into mainstream society through alternate job creation.”Mr. Pirzada said the main challenge was to make inroads against such groups by taking over the religious schools, hospitals and relief organizations that they operate as fronts. Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government made some budgetary allowances for those actions in December, he said.A simple guide to the roots of the conflict and what could happen next.[An American cricket club carries on despite India-Pakistan tensions.]On Tuesday, Pakistani officials promised to take stronger action in the coming weeks against militant groups that operate inside Pakistani territory.Pakistan has made those promises before, including when it was put on the financial task force’s so-called gray list early last year, at the request of the Trump administration.But Pakistani officials say that there is greater urgency now, and that Mr. Khan’s administration is worried about becoming an international pariah if it fails to act. On Monday evening, Mr. Khan gave a rare background briefing to news show hosts in which he reportedly emphasized that the time had come to do more to crack down on militant groups.Pakistani officials say they plan to freeze the assets of more groups, and to take control of religious seminaries that are affiliated with them. The officials said that more travel restrictions would also be imposed on militant leaders.In an initial sign of a crackdown, the Pakistani authorities have detained 44 people, including the brother and son of Masood Azhar, the chief of Jaish-e-Muhammad. Shehryar Afridi, the state minister for interior, who announced the move during a news conference in Islamabad, did not specify any charges and said the detentions were meant for investigations.Mr. Afridi said the names of Mufti Abdur Raoof, the brother of Mr. Azhar, and Hammad Azhar, the son of Mr. Azhar, were included in a dossier that Indian authorities handed to Pakistan for investigations into the Feb. 14 Kashmir attack.Azam Suleman Khan, the interior secretary, said those detained would be freed if found innocent. “In case we don’t find any evidence against them, we will release them,” Mr. Khan said.As Pakistan continued to extend gestures that it wanted normalization of ties, its Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday that Sohail Mehmood, the country’s ambassador to India, would return to New Delhi to resume his duties. The ambassador was recalled to Islamabad last month after tensions erupted over the Kashmir attack.Pakistan also said on Tuesday that a delegation would visit India on March 14 to discuss a draft agreement on a Sikh pilgrimage corridor between the estranged neighbors. The Pakistani visit will be followed by a reciprocal Indian visit, officials said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe CarpetbaggerBy Kyle BuchananOften, when actors or directors with Oscar contenders sit down opposite your Carpetbagger, I can sense the barely concealed anxiety underneath their brave faces. There are so many year-end movies jostling for award-season attention, and it’s possible that their passion projects could get lost in the scrum.It was striking, then, when I recently met up with a relaxed and grinning John Krasinski, who’s treating the awards run of “A Quiet Place” as an unexpected victory lap. Krasinski directed and starred in the postapocalyptic horror movie about a family besieged by sound-seeking monsters, and since “A Quiet Place” was an out-of-the-gate hit last spring, “it’s nice to have the pressure off and have this be a celebration than for it to be an angsty, scary time,” Krasinski said.[Read our review of “A Quiet Place.”]In a year with many populist contenders in the mix, including “A Star is Born” and “Black Panther,” the team behind “A Quiet Place” now hopes to convert that box-office passion into award-season heat. So far, Krasinski’s wife and co-star in the film, Emily Blunt, has picked up a SAG nomination for her work, and the movie has scored top 10 mentions from organizations like the National Board of Review and American Film Institute. That means Krasinski, 39, has spent almost an entire year promoting his film, but he’s happy to overextend himself. “I do feel wiped,” he told me, “but it’s a whole different ballgame to be talking about something you love.”Here are edited excerpts from our conversation:Your first breakthrough was as an actor on “The Office,” which became a hit later into its run. By contrast, “A Quiet Place” was an overnight phenomenon. How did you experience that kind of success?“The Office” was so gradual that there was time to process it, but with “A Quiet Place,” when you’re fired out of a cannon, you don’t really know you’re in the air until you’re almost on the way down. It’s changed my life completely. It felt like this was a story I had always wanted to tell, and I didn’t even know it was lacking in my life, so there was this satiation from it that I didn’t realize I needed. When I was walking my daughter to school for the first time after we premiered at South by Southwest, I felt like, “You’re getting your full dad for the first time.”What was that first public screening like? We were driving there, and my wife said: “What do you want to worry about? Focus on one thing, because if you worry about the whole movie, you’ll drive yourself crazy.” I remembered [George] Clooney told me that they clapped at the end of [the drama he directed] “Good Night and Good Luck,” so I said, “It’d be cool if they clapped.” Of course, I chose the end of the movie, which was stupid. She said: “O.K., just focus on that. Don’t worry about what the audience does until that moment.”When Emily cocked the gun at the end of the movie, they exploded. They jumped out of their seats, they were shaking the chairs. I remember that so clearly because Emily turned to me and screamed, “Oh my God!” And very apropos, I couldn’t hear because everyone was so loud. That’s when I knew, “There’s something here.”A horror movie is not unlike a comedy in that way: If it works, people have a visceral reaction to it.It’s funny you [say that] because I really did take on this project because of some advice Greg Daniels gave me when I was working on “The Office.” He told me, “Your job is not to deliver these lines funny. Your job is just to deliver these lines. If people find it funny, that’s up to them — you just play the honesty of it.”That’s how I approached this movie, and I don’t know if I would have done this had he not given me that advice. I would have gone in thinking, “I’ve got to scare people because this is a genre film,” and it would have been horrible.The film is expected to be a strong Oscar contender in the two sound categories, which people often mix up. Since sound was such an important part of your movie, it strikes me that you might be the perfect person to explain the difference between those two categories.There’s sound mixing and editing. The editing is getting all the sounds in place, putting this sound next to that sound. Sound mixing is making sure they all come together to sound real. If crickets were as loud as the music, it would be insane: You have to diminish the crickets to whatever it’s supposed to be to feel real. That whole idea, I thought I understood until I did this movie. It can either be a tool set that will fix things, or it can be a magic kit where you blow the lid off and start concocting potions of sound. That was mind-blowing to me.At the same time, if a movie really works, it may play well even without sound — when you’re watching it over someone’s shoulder on a plane, for instance.The truth is that I did that exactly for the first month of editing. On the first day or two, I was going through different sounds with my editor to equalize it out, and I just said, “Hit mute.” And we hit mute for what might have been five weeks. The first cut and the second cut were all done without one ounce of sound. I needed to be able to connect with these characters without anything else.When you had that silent cut, did you ever think, “This could practically be a complete film on its own?”One hundred percent, and that sounds super pretentious, but it’s true. Even on silent, there was so much communication happening. I didn’t think our movie would be so commercially accepted because the only other time I’ve seen someone do a movie with no spoken dialogue is Paul Thomas Anderson at the beginning of “There Will Be Blood.” That first 12 to 14 minutes where Daniel Day-Lewis doesn’t speak was a huge touchstone for me.Paul Thomas Anderson hosted an award-season screening for your film. That’s got to be gratifying.I think I’ve only told my wife this, so why not say it in an interview: That was the moment that was the most surreal of all this. He emailed me and said, “You need to call me,” and we talked on the phone and he was so specific and so honest about the movie. He’s been so kind to me through my career, but we were talking like we were on an even playing field and that tripped my wires. What I love most about Paul is that he loves movies.I’ll tell you a big life lesson. Paul was over at my house, I think it was my 30th birthday party, and I had just seen a movie I didn’t love. I said to him over a drink, “It’s not a good movie,” and he so sweetly took me aside and said very quietly, “Don’t say that. Don’t say that it’s not a good movie. If it wasn’t for you, that’s fine, but in our business, we’ve all got to support each other.” The movie was very artsy, and he said, “You’ve got to support the big swing. If you put it out there that the movie’s not good, they won’t let us make more movies like that.”Dude, Paul Thomas Anderson is out there on the wall for us! He’s defending the value of the artistic experience. He’s so good that maybe you project onto him that he’s allowed to be snarky, but he’s the exact opposite: He wants to love everything because that’s why he got into moviemaking. And ever since then, I’ve never said that I hate a movie.[John Krasinski explains how he went about writing “A Quiet Place.”]You’re writing a sequel to “A Quiet Place.” Does it worry you that the first film was such a big hit that Paramount may treat this like the “Purge” franchise, cranking out new installments on a yearly basis?Totally. I can’t stop them from doing that. I’m a realist, I know how the studio operates. At first, I wanted nothing to do with a sequel — I told my wife, “It can never be this good again.” And she said, “Of course it won’t. Take this movie, put it on a mantel so you can look at it anytime you want, and then go out and do something else.”Paramount was asking a bunch of writers and directors what they might do with it, and to their credit, they didn’t take any of those pitches because they felt a little more franchise-y. Meanwhile, I had this tiny idea that fit that world and could be exciting. Paramount asked if I would write it and I’m doing that now, but I’m still thinking about what I want to do next. If I can crack the idea, I would love to direct it again, and if I can’t, I would love to give it to someone else with my fingerprints on it to make sure it’s being taken care of.I know that anyone reading this will be like, “Yeah right, art guy,” but I do have sort of a parental feeling about this movie, and I don’t want “A Quiet Place” to turn into an action movie where 400 people have machine guns. Or did I give away the ending to the sequel? [Laughs.]AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byMatch BookBy Nicole LamyDear Match Book,I have the privilege of leading a spirituality group for homeless women at a day shelter. As a matter of policy, we do not discuss religion — both so that nonbelievers feel welcome, and also since many believers become upset when others don’t share their particular views.To start things off each time we meet we often read a poem together. Over the years we have read Kabir, Hafiz and reams and reams of Mary Oliver. We’ve also covered Shakespeare’s Sonnet 27 and “Phenomenal Woman,” by Maya Angelou. Our selections are often nature-focused, but sometimes they address human emotions and concerns, often explicitly or implicitly about spirituality. Some are about the sacredness of silence, and all are short and beautiful.Finding appropriate poems is really tough. Can you help us out?JOAN MAXWELLWASHINGTON, D.C.Dear Joan,“Every poem is rooted in imaginative awe,” W. H. Auden said. No matter your congregants’ spiritual inclinations, the distillation of language and thought can open a path to reverence, and a few moments of peace. For some, literature is the religion. Beginning each gathering with verse offers a gesture of comfort and hope.Old SoulsYou’ve read work by poets from 14th-century Iran (Hafiz) and 15th-century India (Kabir); have you tried the work of the 13th-century Sufi mystic poet Rumi? “The Essential Rumi,” translated by Coleman Barks, includes three poems in particular (among many!) — “Two Kinds of Intelligence,” “Say I Am You” and “The Seed Market” — in which the metaphysical and the terrestrial mingle. Then, for more ancient beauty and even more brevity, try the 17th-century haikus of Matsuo Basho collected in “On Love and Barley,” translated by Lucien Stryk. The Japanese Zen Buddhist’s lines — full of cherry blossoms and “plum scent” and a cricket’s song — offer a transcendent connection to nature that spans centuries.Inside OutTwo contemporary poets who map external landscapes while navigating internal terrain may provide just what you need to spark discussion and reflection among the women in your group: “I used to pretend to believe in God. Mainly, I liked so much to talk to someone in the dark.” The first two lines of Ada Limón’s “Miracle Fish” give you a sense of the whole of her searching, vital collection, “Bright Dead Things.” There are horses and trees and birds throughout — try “Drift,” “Lies About Sea Creatures” and the startling and powerful “How to Triumph Like a Girl” — as well as plenty of space for believers and agnostics to meet.Faith surfaces frequently in “Otherwise,” the new and selected work by Jane Kenyon published in 1996, the year after she died. Many of Kenyon’s poems are attuned to seasons, in both nature and life. And most are grave and still, though in certain entries — notably “Evening Sun,” “Things” and “Let Evening Come” — movement and light flash from line to line.Double TakesIn much of Joy Harjo’s work belief takes shape as an origin story. Both “Once the World Was Perfect,” from her 2015 book, “Conflict Resolution for Holy Beings,” and “Remember,” from 1983’s “She Had Some Horses,” reveal the ties between selfhood and the wider, wild universe.Finally, “Black Nature,” an anthology of nature poems by black writers edited by Camille T. Dungy, is an invaluable resource that you’ll want to keep close at hand. A sprinkling of Richard Wright’s haikus appear throughout the book’s 10 thematically organized sections, creating witty respites amid the longer verse. The book’s second poem, Lucille Clifton’s “the earth is a living thing,” evokes rich, mythic images of blackness — a bear, a hawk — to convey an encompassing vision of the world. The lens narrows in Robert Hayden’s chilly, holy whisper, “Ice Storm.” Bracing clarity also reigns in Marilyn Nelson’s “Last Talk With Jim Hardwick,” which includes the line, “Nothing is wasted / or permanently lost / in Nature,” and stretches down the page in an elegant strip, as deep and direct as a homily.Yours truly, Match BookDo you need book recommendations? Write to matchbook@nytimes.com.Check out Match Book’s earlier recommendations here.Nicole Lamy is a writer and book critic, and the former books editor of The Boston Globe. Follow her on Twitter @NicoleALamy.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAustralia Fare10 PhotosView Slide Show ›When you make a reservation at an independently reviewed restaurant through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Besha RodellHOBART, Tasmania — There’s a special kind of easygoing pleasure in eating your way through Tasmania’s capital city these days, a sense that this is the exact right place and the exact right time for maximum 2019 deliciousness.The ingredients that create that impression are numerous. Hobart’s compact size makes it manageable and walkable, while its hills-cascading-into-the-river beauty makes those walks especially lovely. Its architecture, much of it constructed from hefty convict-cut stone, creates many opportunities for spaces that feel like hidy-hole secrets — small, warm rooms concealed behind hulking old facades. The invigorated arts scene, thanks mainly to the innovative Museum of Old and New Art, has inspired a thriving culture of creativity. And the still (comparatively) reasonable rents have drawn an enthusiastic group of fresh-faced chefs and restaurateurs, eager to showcase the island state’s unparalleled natural bounty.This confluence of prime dining conditions has not gone unnoticed by national and international media, and I’m almost certainly not the first person to tell you that Hobart is where it’s at. Critical darlings have been anointed, most notably Analeise Gregory, the chef at Franklin, who not only serves sea urchin roe draped around linguine with wild fennel, but also dives for the spiny beasts herself. I’ve had wonderful meals at Franklin, and at the duly lauded Templo, and delicious but slightly fraught experiences at the Agrarian Kitchen, just out of town.But the most vivid impressions — enough to jolt me out of my pleasant Hobart eating reverie and into much more interesting territory — are the meals I’ve had at Dier Makr.[Don’t miss Besha Rodell’s next column. Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter for the best of our local and global coverage.]Though the restaurant has had its fair share of attention, it is often lumped in with other exciting Hobart restaurants, the fourth or fifth spot mentioned in a pack of favorites. Still, there’s something going on in this odd little establishment that’s especially exciting.Dier Makr is buried in the belly of an imposing gray building; a small sign in the front hallway encourages that “you’re going the right way.” In an interior room you’ll find a small collection of tables, a counter that faces the kitchen and a glassed-in wine room. “Kitchen” is a bit of a misnomer: The chef, Kobi Ruzicka, and his staff cook on a collection of hot plates and small portable grills.When he opened Dier Makr in late 2016 with Sarah Fitzsimmons, a co-owner, they lacked the money for a proper kitchen. Mr. Ruzicka does not let his improvised cooking arrangement hold him back. (Ms. Fitzsimmons recently departed the business.) There’s a particular bent to Mr. Ruzicka’s culinary style, a layering of related but divergent flavors that borders on profound.During my first meal at Dier Makr, more than a year ago, I was knocked sideways by a dish that presented cauliflower in various states — puréed, in steamed florets and in lightly pickled slivers — along with raclette and hazelnuts. The pungent, gooey cheese brought out the vegetal funk of the cauliflower, each element amplifying the others. All of the good things about cauliflower were put in a new light, one so much bolder than any I’d experienced before.The fixed price for a seven-course meal was $65, which seemed incredibly cheap. The owners must have come to the same conclusion: Over the last 18 months the price went up incrementally, and is now $85.What you get for that $85 continues to thrill. A recent meal began with a shallow bowl of creamy mascarpone, topped with soft diced potatoes confited in butter. Ultrathin purple potato chips came alongside, with the instruction to treat the dish as a dip. It played out like a loaded baked potato that had been reimagined and deconstructed — familiar and comforting, but elemental and original.A decent portion of the meal is dedicated to snacking, the chips and dip followed by tiny tarts of tomatillo topped with creamy kingfish brandade, then raw carrots and radishes alongside a pool of labneh topped with an umami-rich paste made from fermented crickets and charred allium.Further into the evening, a bowl of dashi appeared, dotted with mysterious dark parcels, some of which turned out to be zucchini, others dumplings made from leek and mussels. I’d expected to be wooed by the latter, but the dumpling wrappers were a little tough and clumsy. The revelation came with the zucchini, which was so soft it collapsed in on itself and revealed a plush, luxurious quality I’d never known in zucchini before.The glassed-in wine room plays a refreshingly interactive part in your meal: Rather than refer to a list, you’re invited to peruse the room the way you would a wine shop. A waiter will accompany you and help as much as is needed, or you can take your time and rely on the tasting notes written on cards hung round each bottle’s neck. It’s not a huge collection, but it is very well chosen, showcasing the most interesting things happening in Australian winemaking alongside smaller producers from Europe.Wine has been a focus for Mr. Ruzicka and Ms. Fitzsimmons all along, and in November they opened a wine bar called Lucinda in a street-facing space in the front of the building. Lucinda’s menu is, on its face, more straightforward than Dier Makr’s, with dishes like mozzarella panzanela, or roast potatoes with gribiche. But here, too, Mr. Ruzicka finds ways to make you sit up and take notice: mustard greens dressed in an XO sauce that is boldly pungent with fermented seafood; pickled rhubarb on a cheese plate that sings with acidic personality.Mr. Ruzicka moved to Hobart from his hometown, Melbourne, almost on a whim; he says Dier Makr could never have come about back there. This is the promise of Hobart: that the next generation of talented chefs is able to spin its own weird and beautiful stories here without too much compromise.Thank the low rents, thank the beauty, thank the art museum, thank the amazing produce, thank the creative community that flourishes here. But however you spin it, it’s Melbourne’s loss.Do you have a suggestion for Besha Rodell? The New York Times’s Australia bureauwould love to hear from you: nytaustralia@nytimes.com, or join the discussion in the NYT Australia Facebook group. Read about the Australia Fare column here.Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebookand Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.When you make a reservation at an independently reviewed restaurant through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.This information was last updated on March 15, 2019AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Dan BilefskyBRAMPTON, Ontario — It was supposed to be a dream family vacation.An immigrant grandfather eager to set foot on African soil after an absence of 30 years.A doting mother determined to show her Canadian daughters where she came from.Two teenage girls giddy at the prospect of seeing animals on safari in Kenya.Instead, three generations of an Indian-Canadian family perished when an Ethiopian Airlines plane crashed on Sunday, killing all 157 people on board, including 18 Canadians.“I am not angry, but I am devastated. I have lost everyone,” said Manant Vaidya, 41, whose parents, sister, brother-in-law and two teenage nieces all died in the crash, which had victims from 25 countries, including Kenya, Ethiopia, China and the United States.[Read our latest coverage of the Ethiopian Airlines crash.]In Brampton, Ontario, a multicultural suburban city outside Toronto where Punjabi is the second-most spoken language after English, the tight-knit South Asian community is in shock at the deaths of Mr. Vaidya’s mother, Hansini Vaidya, 67; father, Pannagesh Vaidya, 73; sister Kosha Vaidya, 37; brother-in-law Prerit Dixit, 45; and two teenage nieces Ashka Dixit, 14, and Anushka Dixit, 13.They are mourning, Mr. Vaidya said, for a family that embodied the “Canadian dream.”Within hours of the crash, the mayor ordered that flags at city hall be lowered to half-staff to honor the family. Flags were also lowered at the girls’ schools.On Tuesday, a steady stream of neighbors and relatives dropped by the handsome house in Brampton where Mr. Vaidya and his family had lived with his parents, offering condolences and care packages of food.On Monday, Sushma Swaraj, the Indian foreign minister, called to express her condolences.The family, meanwhile, was discussing how to find hair samples or dental records of their dead relatives for DNA testing. They said they despaired at the possibility of not being to able to identify the bodies so that the family could be cremated in their native Gujarat in accordance with Hindu ritual.[Read answers to frequently asked questions about Boeing’s 737 Max 8.]“I last saw them on Saturday morning when I dropped them off at the airport,” Mr. Vaidya said.A friend from Nairobi called the next day to tell him the news.“I couldn’t believe it at first,” Mr. Vaidya said, adding that the family had feared breaking the news to his mother’s 90-year-old mother, back in India.China was the first major country to ground the jets. The U.S. was last.Mr. Vaidya said his family were typical first-generation Indian immigrants, with five groups of relatives living within five minutes of one another in Brampton, presided over by his parents.They were surrogate parents, mentors and therapists to the entire clan, he said, many of whose immediate family was in India.Pannagesh Vaidya, a gentle, soft-spoken man with a ready smile, had been chief executive of an engineering consulting business, his son said, and enjoyed tutoring his grandchildren in math, doing equations in his head.At weekly family get-togethers, overflowing with naan bread and dal, along with pizza, Ashka would sing and Anushka would do classical Indian dances. Anushka aspired to be a robotics engineer.“The two girls were born here and were Canadian girls,” Mr. Vaidya said. “The whole family believed Canada was a land of opportunity.”Mr. Vaidya said his sister immigrated to Ontario in 2003, to join her husband, who had arrived from India in the 1990s, in search of a better life. About nine years later, her parents joined them from India.The Canadian cold had initially been a culture shock to his father, he said. “But my father said better to stay indoors and be close to family.”Hiral Vaidya, Mr. Vaidya’s wife, recalled that her mother-in-law was deeply religious. Every morning she woke up to do puja, a Hindu ritual in which she paid homage to Indian deities, including the powerful Shiva.Before the Ethiopian Air flight, she said, Hansini Vaidya woke at 3 a.m. and spent two hours praying for a safe journey. “She wouldn’t eat or do anything until she had prayed,” she said.Mr. Dixit thought a lot about plane safety, Mr. Vaidya said, and, before the flight, had assiduously studied the safety record of the Boeing 737 Max 8, along with the airline’s track record.He said his brother-in-law had felt confident because it was a new plane. “He did his homework,” Mr. Vaidya said.The senior Vaidyas had met in an arranged marriage in Gujarat, but love soon took over. Mr. Vaidya said his father financed his mother’s education as an architect. “He was part of the older generation, but respected his wife having a career,” he said.The family embodied the work ethic of new immigrants.Mr. Vaidya said his brother-in-law, a passionate photographer, worked two jobs, seven days a week when he first came to Canada, including as a lab technician for the Canadian Ministry of Health.His sister, an extrovert with a zest for travel, worked in the human resources department of the Canadian Hearing Society, which provides services for deaf people.Nikita Joshi, one of her closest friends, said she was determined to travel as broadly as possible before her daughters started university.She had checked off Alaska, Mexico and Hawaii, and was eager to show her daughters Mombasa, Kenya, where she had been born when her father was working there decades earlier.After Kenya, she had planned to take the family to London to watch cricket, to India to see her family, and to Dubai.The girls swam, followed soccer, listened to girl bands and joined the family on Bollywood film nights.“The closeness in their family was so nice,” said Ashka’s music teacher, Pramesh Nandi. “They were like made for each other, all four of them.”“I’m not ready to believe that they are not here,” he added. “I keep thinking that someone will come here and say that they’re still alive and they’re enjoying the trip in Africa.”As a succession of countries, including Germany, Britain, France, Australia and Oman, grounded Boeing 737 Max 8 planes on Tuesday, the family asked why Canada had not joined other countries in doing so.“Someone needs to step up and take responsibility for this tragedy so this doesn’t happen to another family, and lives are lost in the air,” said Premal Vyas, a relative. “We have a lot of questions, but very few answers.”Stefanie Marotta contributed reporting from Toronto.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBooks of The TimesBy Dwight GarnerThe greatest bowling scene in American literature, worth slipping on a pair of tricolor slippers to read, is almost certainly the one that opens William Kennedy’s novel “Billy Phelan’s Greatest Game” (1978).Kennedy’s prose has as much mustard on it as does one of Billy’s throws. A substantial bet has been placed. Billy bowls a strike, and it’s “not just another strike, but a titanic blast this time which sent all pins flying pitward, the cleanest of clean hits, perfection unto tidiness, bespeaking power battening on power, control escalating.”Why there isn’t more bowling writing in our fiction is a mystery. Surely the problem can’t be the game’s relatively low status. (Paul Fussell once proposed a map of the least classy places to live in America, based on ample access to bowling.) Bowling alleys seem a potent setting for drama; a playwright could set a wax-floor update of “The Iceman Cometh” on Lane 11.Elizabeth McCracken’s new novel, “Bowlaway,” is a paean to candlepin bowling, a less-whacking variant of the sport. It employs thinner pins and a ball the size of a grapefruit with no finger holes. Bowlers are given three tosses a turn, not two. The game is popular in New England. There are no candlepin alleys in New York City.With this novel McCracken has, to borrow a term from cricket, bowled a googly. “Bowlaway” is a large and caterwauling sort of opera buffa, packed with outsize characters — some with recherché talents — and wild, often dreamlike events. If this novel were a bar, it would be the kind of joint where the Christmas lights are left on all year long.This is McCracken’s third novel, and there’s been a wait for it. (She has also written two books of stories and a memoir.) Her last novel, “Niagara Falls All Over Again,” which tracks a pair of comedy partners from vaudeville to Hollywood, appeared 18 years ago.Her first, a favorite of mine, a little heartbreaker of a book written with command and magic, is titled “The Giant’s House.” It was published in 1996. It’s about a librarian and her love for a very tall, very literate boy who is dying. It’s the sort of novel, I recall writing at the time, you want to sleep with under your pillow.In the nearly two decades between her last novel and this one, there has been some tragedy in the author’s life. Her memoir, “An Exact Replica of a Figment of My Imagination” (2008), is about the child she lost, in her ninth month of pregnancy, while living in a remote part of France.Some of the sorrow in that memoir seeps over into “Bowlaway.” More than one woman in this novel has lost a child. The writing on this topic makes for close to unbearable reading.“People, women especially, are leery of mothers of dead children, or too gentle around them,” McCracken writes. “The bereaved mother is a combustible gas, the baby is a match; which one is dangerous makes no difference but best keep them apart. LuEtta couldn’t think of a way to ask that didn’t make her seem more dangerous. She saw she might never be allowed to hold anyone’s baby again.”This substrata of despondency adds ballast to a novel that sometimes seems to want to drift off, like a hot-air balloon, into an ionospheric layer of pure twinkle and whimsy.This is the sort of novel in which nearly every character has an offbeat name (Leviticus Sprague, Cracker Graham, LuEtta Mood) and can seem more like a collection of quirks than a human being. One man blinks like a circus bear and has hands as brown as paws. Another speaks “at the same rumbling pitch of the rolling balls.”A woman talks about rivers of blood if you ask her about cheese soufflés. Another compulsively takes in wild animals until one finally kills her. Yet another can remember being born. (“It was dark inside Mama.”) If someone showed up with an emotional support anteater, he or she would not seem out of place.In the manner of John Irving and Salman Rushdie and Annie Proulx in their less persuasive work, McCracken in “Bowlaway” comes close to writing caricatures instead of characters.That this ambitious novel nearly works is a testament to her considerable gifts as a novelist, her instinctive access to the most intricate threads of human thought and feeling.“Bowlaway” begins at the start of the 20th century, when a woman named Bertha Truitt turns up — inexplicably, as if she has beamed down from outer space — in the cemetery of a small town north of Boston.Bertha is larger than life in many ways. She’s big and bosomy, which is worth remarking because so many of the people in this novel, men and women, have had too much cake and too little exercise. McCracken writes wonderfully and perceptively about large bodies. If she were a painter or sculptor, she’d be Fernando Botero or Henry Moore, not Modigliani or El Greco.Bertha, who is described as a “prophet of bowling,” opens a candlepin alley. The place is a success, in part because of its feminist bona fides. In most bowling alleys at the time, McCracken writes, women had to bowl behind curtains, separated from the men for modesty’s sake. Not here.Women bowling in the open bring gawkers, “because where else could you see such a good-looking girl dewy with sweat and happiness, and not pay a cent, and not have to go to confession?”This candlepin alley attracts ghosts. A major character spontaneously combusts. Another dies in the Great Molasses Flood of 1919, which is a correlative, at times, for the experience of reading “Bowlaway.”The alley attracts orphans and sensitive, damaged souls, the heartbroken and the disinherited. As this novel moves through the decades we follow them, as well as the children of Bertha and others. Some go to New York City. Others go to wars. Some open their own bowling alleys.The plot has many resonances but never fully sets its hooks in us. The politics of nearly all its characters, with respect to feminism, interracial marriage, and gay and lesbian tendencies, are anachronistically progressive.This novel’s cast grows epic, but McCracken is always most impressive when she works small, when she is describing movie kisses or corsets or simply loneliness and longing.One man in “Bowlaway” likes drinking for the same reason I like her sentences: “Beer turned on the lights, warmed the furniture.”Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter: @DwightGarner.BowlawayBy Elizabeth McCracken373 pages. Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEditors’ ChoiceFor various reasons — we’re fighting colds, Times Square is stumbling through the usual post-holiday blahs, our colleagues in the Travel section just unveiled their latest sumptuous list of 52 places to visit — we’ve got globe-trotting on the mind this week. If you do too, might we recommend some short stories from Argentina? Or a new bayou murder mystery from James Lee Burke? A novel about Somali immigrants in Norway, or a collection of Ruth Prawer Jhabvala’s precise character studies of expats and emigrants? You’ll find all of those below, along with Paul Collier’s nonfiction book about retaining a sense of community in a globalized world. Closer to home, we offer a couple of food memoirs, and a natural history of the domestic biome that may have you urgently planning your next vacation to a technologically engineered cleanroom facility with a protective suit and a book. The cleanroom would be a mistake, our review makes clear. But a book is always a good idea.Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksMOUTHFUL OF BIRDS: Stories, by Samanta Schweblin. Translated by Megan McDowell. (Riverhead, $26.) This collection by the Argentine writer Samanta Schweblin, among the most acclaimed Spanish-language writers of her generation, has the surrealist echoes of her contemporaries Kelly Link and Jesse Ball. “But, to me, her true ancestor could only be David Lynch; her tales are woven out of dread, doubles and confident loose ends,” our critic Parul Sehgal writes. “Her stories are obsessed with notions of purity and danger; with the ways people can be deformed, very early on, in the name of tenderness, teaching and care.”THE NEW IBERIA BLUES, by James Lee Burke. (Simon & Schuster, $27.99.) In the latest Dave Robicheaux mystery, Burke’s lawman hero contends with multiple visitors to his Louisiana bayou parish: a murderer fleeing prison; a Hollywood director returning to his roots for a movie; a woman nailed to a wooden cross that washes up from the bay. It’s brutal and chaotic, but engrossing. “Does anyone really read Burke expecting a coherent narrative? We’re hanging on for Robicheaux’s pensées,” Marilyn Stasio writes in her crime column. “We’re keeping an eye out for vivid characters. … Maybe most of all, we’re waiting for those angry outbursts when Robicheaux lets it rip.”NORTH OF DAWN, by Nuruddin Farah. (Riverhead, $27.) The war between the middle-aged Somali couple in Farah’s new novel, set in middle-class Norway, is a proxy for the global clash between fundamentalism and secularism. “In the hands of a younger, brasher novelist, we might expect high drama, but here, instead, is a nuanced, quietly devastating family soap opera,” our reviewer, Melanie Finn, writes. Farah “uses the intimate as allegory for the national. If we cannot understand why a family falls apart, then neither can we understand why a nation does — a truth those of us weary from holiday-dinner-table political arguments may appreciate.”THE FUTURE OF CAPITALISM: Facing the New Anxieties, by Paul Collier. (Harper/HarperCollins, $29.99.) Collier, who has devoted his career to the uplift of the global poor, argues that national loyalty is a firmer foundation for global justice than abstract cosmopolitanism, which too often masks unrestricted selfishness. “How does Collier intend to repair the bonds of affection in the rich democracies? ‘The Future of Capitalism’ is rife with inventive proposals,” Reihan Salam writes in his review. “Though I wouldn’t endorse Collier’s manifesto in every detail, his ‘hard centrism’ has much to offer.”AT THE END OF THE CENTURY: The Stories of Ruth Prawer Jhabvala. (Counterpoint, $26.) A posthumous collection from the novelist and screenwriter best known for her precise accounts of individuals caught between different societies, seeking to find an elusive sense of home. “Her work anticipates a world of displaced people,” Megan O’Grady notes in her review, “where, as the half-British, half-Indian narrator of one of her stories puts it, everyone is ‘moving more freely’ as ‘refugees or emigrants or just out of restless curiosity’ and where there are ‘at least two generations of people in whom several kinds of heritage are combined.’ … The stories — all of them elegantly plotted and unsentimental, with an addictive, told-over-tea quality — are largely character studies of people isolated, often tragically, by custom or self-delusion.”NEVER HOME ALONE: From Microbes to Millipedes, Camel Crickets, and Honeybees, the Natural History of Where We Live, by Rob Dunn. (Basic, $30.) Dunn has been involved in an obsessive quest to document the tiny inhabitants of indoor environments. News from the showerhead biome is just one part of this fact-filled, occasionally disgusting, slightly alarming book. “There’s a real sense of ‘gee-whiz’ in this book,” our reviewer, Robin Marantz Henig, writes, “but it’s mostly in service of Dunn’s overarching goal: to preach the preservation of biodiversity, not only in the lush forests and streams that fit our traditional image of nature’s abundance, but in the most humble places, too, where the vast majority of us will have most of our cross-species encounters — our basements, mattresses, refrigerator drawers and showerheads.”THE BREAD AND THE KNIFE: A Life in 26 Bites, by Dawn Drzal. (Arcade, $19.99.) In this alphabet of autobiographical, gastronomical essays, Drzal traces the delicate emotions packed into a scene with the precision of a miniaturist. Irina Dumitrescu reviews the book alongside two other food memoirs. “While food provides the hooks for Drzal’s memories, the collection thrums for other reasons,” Dumitrescu writes: “her moments of unflinching but forgiving self-criticism, descriptions of place that transport readers with a minimum of detail, and a knack for metaphors so perfect as to seem inevitable.”KITCHEN YARNS: Notes on Life, Love, and Food, by Ann Hood. (Norton, $24.95.) A novelist offers meditations on food and life, served with the easy intimacy of a friend. “Hood’s essays are like hot chocolate, cozy and warm,” Irina Dumitrescu writes in her review. “Her collection of meditations on food and life touches the big themes: grief for a brother and a small child gone suddenly, two divorces and the end of a grand affair. … The recipes closing each chapter hint that every heartache can be soothed by the deft application of cheese and carbohydrates.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times[For the latest updates on the Christchurch attack, read our Saturday live briefing.]• Forty-nine people were killed in shootings at two mosques in central Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a terrorist attack that appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist extremist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the attacks on Facebook.• After visiting victims and their families Saturday afternoon, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said many of the people who died in the attacks were the breadwinners in their families, and that the government would help those who had been left without income.• A 28-year-old man from Australia was charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant. The New Zealand police said he would face additional charges. A second man, 18, was charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will.”• Though officials have not released the names of those killed, a list of those missing has been published by the New Zealand Red Cross on its website. It includes people from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Jordan, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.[How to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]The attacker targeted the Al Noor Mosque in the center of the city and Linwood Mosque, about three miles away.The country’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said at a Friday evening news conference that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor Mosque and seven at Linwood Mosque, and that another victim had died at Christchurch Hospital.David Meates, the chief executive of the Canterbury District Health Board, said that 48 people, including young children, were treated for injuries at the hospital. Mr. Bush said Saturday morning that two of the victims were in critical condition.The police said Friday that three men and one woman had been taken into custody, but Mr. Bush lowered the total number to three on Saturday morning, indicating that someone had been released.Ms. Ardern said none of those detained had been on security watch lists.Mr. Bush had earlier urged people not to go to mosques anywhere in New Zealand on Friday. He also urged mosques nationally to “close your doors until you hear from us again.”In a Christchurch courtroom hearing closed to the public for security reasons, police officers in bulletproof vests brought in the suspect, Brenton Harrison Tarrant. The police said he had been charged with one count of murder but would face additional charges. Mr. Tarrant, 28, short with thinning brown hair, handcuffed and wearing white prison clothing, looked around the courtroom but said nothing as District Court Judge Paul Kellar ordered him held for a further hearing on April 5.Regional officials have said Mr. Tarrant is an Australian citizen. Court papers listed his New Zealand address as Dunedin City, which is about 280 miles south of Christchurch.Richard Peters, his court-appointed lawyer, said Mr. Tarrant had indicated he might represent himself in the prosecution. Asked how Mr. Tarrant had reacted to what he is facing, Mr. Peters said, “He seemed to be quite aware of where he is and what he’s doing.”At the same time the charging document for Mr. Tarrant was handed out to reporters, a second court filing was distributed that said Daniel John Burrough, 18, of Christchurch, had been charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will.” Court officials would not elaborate on how the two cases were related.In addition to Mr. Tarrant, three other people were arrested in connection with the attacks, although one was apparently released. Few details have been offered about them.Families are mourning loved ones, and the city of Christchurch is preparing to bury its dead. As news trickles out about the victims of the massacre, their nationalities are beginning to emerge.Though officials have not released the names of those killed, a list of those missing has been published by the New Zealand Red Cross on its website. It includes people from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Jordan, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.At least three people from Bangladesh were killed, and another two from Jordan, according to local news reports. Five people from Pakistan are missing, and several others were injured, officials in Pakistan confirmed. Other foreign ministries around the world said their citizens were caught up in the attack, including three people from Turkey.A 17-minute video posted to Facebook shows part of the attack.The clip, which appeared to have been taken from a helmet camera worn by the gunman, begins behind the wheel of a car. A man, whose face can occasionally be seen in the rearview mirror, drives through the streets of Christchurch before pulling up in front of Al Noor Mosque, beside the sprawling Hagley Park.[Read more here about the video, manifesto and social media posts.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.He approaches the mosque on foot, his weapon visible, and begins shooting at people at the entrance. What follows is a harrowing nearly two minutes of his firing on worshipers.At one point the gunman exits the mosque and fires in both directions down the sidewalk before returning to his car for another gun — which, like the others, was inscribed with numbers, symbols or messages. When he re-enters the mosque, he shoots several bodies at close range.After another few minutes, he returns to his vehicle and drives away.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point, as the sirens of an emergency response vehicle blare in the background.Before the shooting, the gunman posted links to a white nationalist manifesto on Twitter and 8chan, an online forum known for extremist right-wing discussions. The 8chan post included a link to the gunman’s Facebook page, where he said he would also broadcast live video of the attack.The Twitter posts showed weapons covered in the names of past military generals and men who have recently carried out mass shootings.In his manifesto, he identified himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia, and listed his white nationalist heroes.Writing that he had purposely used guns to stir discord in the United States over the Second Amendment’s provision on the right to bear arms, he also declared himself a fascist. “For once, the person that will be called a fascist, is an actual fascist,” he wrote.Many of the people who died in the attacks were the breadwinners in their family, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Saturday.The victims were “predominantly from the ages of 20 to 60ish — and a large number of men,” Ms. Ardern told reporters at Hagley College, a local school near the hospital where relatives of the victims were gathering.She said a government compensation system would help families of those left without income. In the meantime, mosques would continue to get extra security, she added.“The commissioner has advised that police security will continue at mosques around New Zealand until it is determined that it is no longer a threat,” she said, referring to the country’s police commissioner, Mike Bush.Earlier in the day, Ms. Ardern vowed changes to the country’s gun laws. She said that the attacker held a gun license obtained last November and that five guns were used in the attack, including two semi-automatic weapons.“Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said, though did not elaborate on what such legislation may look like. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”President Trump, who was mentioned in the suspected assailant’s manifesto as a source of inspiration, rejected suggestions that white nationalism is a rising menace, although he suggested it might be problem in New Zealand.“I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems,” he told reporters in Washington in response to a question. “If you look at what happened in New Zealand, perhaps that’s the case. I don’t know enough about it yet. But it’s certainly a terrible thing.”Asked if he had seen the manifesto, Mr. Trump said: “I did not see it, but I think it’s a horrible event, it’s a horrible thing. I saw it early in the morning when I looked at what was happening, and we spoke, as you know, to the prime minister. I think it’s a horrible disgraceful thing, horrible act.”Attacks on mosques and Muslim religious leaders in the West have increased in recent years, according to data from the Global Terrorism Database at the University of Maryland. North America, Europe and Oceania saw 128 such attacks from 2010 through 2017, the latest year of available data.Terrorist attacks on other religious institutions, such as churches and synagogues, totaled 213 over the same period.21 attacksin 201520 attacks100EuropeNorthAmericaOceania’10’17’10’17’10’1720 attacks100EuropeNorthAmericaOceania’10’17’10’17’10’17EuropeNorthAmericaOceania20attacks100’10’17’10’17’10’17By Weiyi Cai | Source: Global Terrorism Database | Note: Includes attacks on Islamic centers and Muslim religious figures.Felix Kjellberg, a polarizing YouTube celebrity known as PewDiePie, distanced himself from the attacks after the man who filmed himself shooting victims at a mosque encouraged viewers to “subscribe to PewDiePie” in a video livestream.“I feel absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person,” Mr. Kjellberg, a Swede, said on Twitter.Mr. Kjellberg has courted controversy by performing anti-Semitic gestures, which he calls satirical, in his videos. He has a following of 89 million subscribers.Over the last 18 months, tech companies have promised stronger safeguards to ensure that violent content is not distributed through their sites. But those new safeguards were not enough to stop the posting of a video and manifesto believed related to Friday’s shooting.A 17-minute video that included graphic footage apparently of the shooting could be found on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram more than an hour after being posted. While Facebook and Twitter took down pages thought to be linked to the gunman, the posted content was spread rapidly through other accounts.In order to evade detection, people appeared to be cropping the video or posting the text of the manifesto as an image — techniques used to evade automated systems that find and delete content.Social media companies have heavily invested in those systems, with Facebook reporting last year that more than 99 percent of terrorism content by the Islamic State and Al Qaeda was found and removed through artificial intelligence.A Facebook spokeswoman offered condolences to the victims and said the company was “removing any praise or support for the crime and the shooter or shooters as soon as we’re aware.”YouTube said it had taken down thousands of videos related to the shooting, and asked users to help flag videos. A spokeswoman for Reddit said it was also trying to remove “any content containing links to the video stream or the manifesto.”Still, the tech companies were sharply criticized by Senator Cory Booker, a Democratic candidate for president, who said in New Hampshire on Friday that it was “unacceptable” for the companies to give “a platform to hate.”Nasreen Hanif, a spokeswoman for the Islamic Women’s Council of New Zealand, said the country’s Muslims were anxious for updates.[For Muslims in New Zealand and abroad, the massacre has drawn outrage as a brazen act of hatred borne of anti-Muslim sentiment.]Ms. Hanif said the two mosques in Christchurch had asked for help from the rest of New Zealand’s Muslims to arrange 49 funerals.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said that three Turkish citizens were wounded in the attack; the Palestine Liberation Organization’s ambassador to New Zealand said at least one Palestinian was killed; and the group Syrian Solidarity New Zealand said on its Facebook page that “Syrian refugees, including children, have been shot today.”A site managed by the International Committee of the Red Cross listed dozens of people who had been recorded as missing, including people from Egypt, Syria, India, Kuwait, Jordan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Somalia.Representative Ilhan Omar, one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, urged all Muslims to attend Friday Prayers and exhorted people of all faiths to join them to repudiate the white supremacist message of the New Zealand attack.“I know there was a call for people to not go,” she told reporters after addressing a climate rally in Washington. “But I said to people that is what the terrorists want us to do. That is a win for them, and so we must face the hate and terror with love and with compassion.”Ms. Omar also said “everyone should join us in solidarity.”The New Zealand police force had called for mosques in the country to close.The congresswoman, a freshman Democrat from Minnesota, has been at the center of a political tempest in the Democratic Party over remarks on Israel that critics have called anti-Semitic. She has apologized for those remarks.Members of the Bangladesh national cricket team, in Christchurch for a match against New Zealand, were en route to Al Noor Mosque for Friday Prayer when the shooting began. They narrowly missed it.Mohammad Isam, a journalist covering the team, reported for ESPN that at 1:52 p.m. he got a call from Tamim Iqbal Khan, one of the players.“There’s shooting here, please save us,” Mr. Khan said, according to Mr. Isam. At first, he thought it was a prank.“But he hangs up and calls again — this time, his voice starts to crack,” Mr. Isam wrote. “He says that I should call the police as there’s a shooting going on inside the mosque where they are about to enter.”Mr. Isam ran toward the mosque and saw bloodied and dazed people fleeing. In the chaos, he managed to find several players, and they eventually reconvened at the hotel. The team manager, Khaled Mashud, told reporters that players were about 50 yards from the mosque.“Had we reached even three or four minutes earlier, we probably would have been inside the mosque,” he said.“Entire team got saved from active shooters,” Mr. Khan wrote on Twitter. Another player, Mushfiqur Rahim, tweeted that he never wanted “to see this things happen again.”Aman Singh, who works at a convenience store close to the Deans Avenue mosque, said he had heard the gunshots on Friday afternoon, and that shortly afterward people streamed past the shop, bloody and crying.Mr. Singh, 26, said he knew several people who worshiped at the mosque.“My really good friend goes there,” he said, adding that he had not been able to confirm the friend’s whereabouts on Friday afternoon.Murders are rare in New Zealand, and gun homicides even rarer. There were 35 murders countrywide in 2017. And since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits each year except 2009, when there were 11.But there are plenty of guns.There were 1.2 million registered firearms in the country of 4.6 million people in 2017, according to the Small Arms Survey, a Swiss nonprofit.New Zealand law allows any person aged 16 or older with an entry-level firearm license to keep any number of common rifles and shotguns, according to GunPolicy.org, a project hosted by the University of Sydney. Most guns can be purchased without being tracked by law enforcement officials.A mass shooting in Aramoana, New Zealand, in 1990 — when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor — led directly to tightened gun laws, including restrictions on “military-style semiautomatic weapons.”Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay from Wellington, New Zealand; Megan Specia, Jason Bailey and Rick Gladstone from New York; Daniel Victor and Tiffany May from Hong Kong; Alan Yuhas from London; Damien Cave and Jacqueline Williams from Sydney, Australia; Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco; and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.OpinionCharlie WarzelAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLay, Austin Ramzy and Daniel VictorWELLINGTON, New Zealand — At least 49 people were killed at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a horrific and methodical afternoon slaughter, part of which was broadcast live on the internet after the publication of a white supremacist manifesto online.The massacre, which Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand’s prime minister, condemned as a terrorist attack and called “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” interrupted a day of prayer for a small immigrant community in the nation’s third-largest city and shook a country with little history of mass shooting.Harrowing first-person footage, apparently from a camera worn by a gunman as he attacked the Al Noor Mosque in the center of the city, was streamed on Facebook — a grim milestone in the evolution of terrorism that raised questions about how tech companies can block extremists from using social media to spread hate and inspire violence.[Follow our live briefing here.]Facebook said it quickly shut down the account, but a 17-minute video showing a man dressed in black shooting at fleeing worshipers and into piles of bodies with a semiautomatic rifle circulated widely online. In addition to those killed, at least 48 people were being treated for gunshot wounds, including young children, the authorities said.The police said a man in his late 20s was arrested and charged with murder but declined to identify him. The police also said they seized several weapons and found two explosive devices on a vehicle.“This is and will be one of New Zealand’s darkest days,” Ms. Ardern said at a news conference.Schools in the downtown area were locked down for hours after the attacks as the police tried to determine whether the gunman acted alone. The authorities urged residents to stay indoors, asked mosques to close and cleared nearby Cathedral Square, where people had gathered as part of worldwide protests to demand action on climate change.New Zealand’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said three other individuals found near the scene with weapons were also taken into custody, though investigators later said that one probably had nothing to do with the attacks.The shootings were first reported at about 1:40 p.m., around the time of the midday Friday prayer, when the Al Noor Mosque and the Linwood Mosque, about three miles east, would be most busy. The manifesto had appeared online minutes earlier.The document named both mosques, and links to it were posted on Twitter and 8chan, an online forum known for hosting message boards with extremist right-wing discussions. The 8chan post included a link to what appeared to be the gunman’s Facebook page, where he said he would soon broadcast live video of the attack.But it was not immediately clear whether the name on the page was that of the suspect, and the authorities declined to comment.Ms. Ardern said that many of the victims were most likely migrants to New Zealand or refugees.“Christchurch was the home of these victims,” she said. “For many this may not have been the place they were born. For many, New Zealand was their choice, the place that they chose to come to and committed themselves to, the place they chose to raise their families.”She added that New Zealand was likely targeted “because we represent diversity, kindness, compassion, a home for those who share our values, refuge for those who need it.”Nasreen Hanif, a spokeswoman for the Islamic Women’s Council of New Zealand, said people were anxious for updates and were worried that friends or family members were among the dead.“Nobody’s answering their phones,” she said. “We don’t know if they’re at the hospital or out of reach. Some have posted that they are safe, but others have not.”Ms. Hanif said the two mosques in Christchurch had asked for help from Muslims across the country to arrange the 49 funerals they would need to plan.Historians say Muslims have lived in New Zealand for more than 150 years, but the population has grown with immigration from war-torn countries like Iraq and Afghanistan in the 1990s and 2000s. In a country of nearly five million people, though, only about 46,000 identified as Muslim in the 2013 census.The video of the attack, which appeared to be recorded on a helmet camera, showed the gunman driving to the mosque and then opening fire even before he entered the building. For nearly two minutes, he shoots at fleeing worshipers before he runs back to his car and swaps weapons.He then is seen re-entering the mosque and opening fire again, methodically moving from room to room and shooting into piles of bodies slumped on the green carpets. Several victims can be seen in the footage, many lying on top of one another motionless in a corner of the room.After another few minutes, the gunman leaves again, gets in his vehicle and drives away, pausing occasionally to fire at pedestrians while talking to himself throughout.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point.The police in New Zealand said they were working to remove the video from the internet and urged people not to share it.A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.Facebook said it was alerted by the police shortly after the livestream started. “We quickly removed both the shooter’s Facebook and Instagram accounts and the video,” Mia Garlick, a Facebook representative, said in a statement. “We’re also removing any praise or support for the crime and the shooter or shooters as soon as we’re aware.”Before the shooting began, the gunman made a winking reference to an internet meme, telling viewers to “subscribe to PewDiePie,” a reference to the Swedish YouTube star Felix Kjellberg. Mr. Kjellberg, who has been criticized for anti-Semitism over skits that he called satirical, said on Twitter that he felt “absolutely sickened” that the gunman had mentioned him.The video and Twitter posts showed weapons covered in the names of past military generals and men who have recently carried out mass shootings.The author of the manifesto identifies himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia. He listed his white nationalist heroes, described his animosity toward Muslims and immigrants, and said he chose to use guns in the attacks to stir discord in the United States around the Second Amendment.Aman Singh, 26, who works at a convenience store close to the Al Noor Mosque, said he hid after hearing gunshots and seeing people stream past, bloody and crying.“My really good friend goes there,” he said, adding that he had not been able to confirm the friend’s whereabouts.Mohammad Isam, a Bangladeshi journalist, posted a video of members of Bangladesh’s national cricket team who he said escaped the attack.Christchurch, with about 388,000 residents, is the biggest city on New Zealand’s South Island, hugging the Pacific Ocean coast.There hasn’t been a mass shooting in New Zealand since 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana.That shooting led to tightened gun laws, including restrictions on “military style semiautomatic weapons.”Gun owners must be licensed, a process that includes a review of criminal activity and mental health, attendance at a safety program, an explanation of how the gun would be used, a residence visit to ensure secure storage, and testimonials from relatives and friends.Murders are rare in New Zealand, and gun homicides even rarer. There were 35 murders countrywide in 2017. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits each year except 2009, when there were 11.But there are plenty of guns. There were 1.2 million registered firearms in a country of 4.6 million people in 2017, according to the Small Arms Survey, a Swiss nonprofit.Charlotte Graham-McLay reported from Wellington, New Zealand, and Austin Ramzy and Daniel Victor from Hong Kong. Damien Cave contributed reporting from Sydney, and Megan Specia and Jason Bailey from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.OpinionCharlie WarzelAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Ben BrantleySam Shepard’s wild West just got a lot scarier.I’m talking about that shadowy, shifting desertscape occupied so disharmoniously by the two brothers of Shepard’s 1980 masterwork, “True West,” which has been given a ripping revival by James Macdonald at the American Airlines Theater. As embodied by a brilliant Ethan Hawke, in full-menace mode, and a tightly wired Paul Dano, everyday sibling rivalry has seldom felt this ominous.[Read more about Paul Dano, and his reflections on acting and directing.]It’s not that you worry that one’s going to kill the other, in the time-honored tradition of Cain and Abel, although that looms as a possibility. What’s really threatening in this Roundabout Theater Company production, which opened on Thursday night, is its creeping, gut-knotting insistence that family is no fortress against a darkness that erases all sense of a separate self.On the contrary. When it comes to getting lost in the gloaming of existential nothingness, there’s no place like home.Anyone who knows the work of Shepard, who died in 2017, will be familiar with this discomfiting perspective. “A Lie of the Mind,” the name of his 1985 portrait of a family in fission, could well be an umbrella title for the series of domestic dramas that preceded it, including his Pulitzer Prize-winning “Buried Child” (1978). (Footnote: Mr. Hawke has Shepard cred, having appeared in the 1995 Steppenwolf revival of “Buried Child” in Chicago and directed a first-rate “Lie of the Mind” in New York in 2010.)Written during a decade-long explosion of creativity, these plays present a tragicomic vision of the American family that, for my money, puts him in the exalted company of Eugene O’Neill. “True West” — first seen in New York in a misbegotten, miscast production at the Public Theater nearly four decades ago — hasn’t always received the solemn respect accorded the others.It is usually thought of as an occasion for Method men — including John Malkovich and Gary Sinise (in 1982) and Philip Seymour Hoffman and John C. Reilly (who memorably switched roles in rotation in 2000) — to get down and dirty and tear up the scenery. Mr. Hawke and Mr. Dano do all that, especially in the boisterous second act.But Mr. Macdonald — a British director who has expertly interpreted the apocalyptic visions of Caryl Churchill (“Escaped Alone” and “A Number,” which happened to star Shepard) — is a master at building suspense from seemingly banal elements. And for the first half of his “True West,” he imbues the most prosaic details with mounting tension worthy of Hitchcock.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter.]Here’s the setup: Austin (Mr. Dano), a screenwriter in his early 30s, is taking time away from his family to work at the Southern California home of his mother, who is vacationing in Alaska. (She shows up late in the play, in the pricelessly bewildered form of Marylouise Burke.) To his politely concealed dismay, he is joined by a surprise guest: big brother Lee (Mr. Hawke), a scruffy black sheep whom Austin hasn’t seen in five years.As rendered in Mimi Lien’s set, Mom’s place (in full view of the audience before the show begins) is a sunny slice of California cheesiness, with a garden gnome, flourishing potted plants and a clear view of the house next door. Nothing to be scared of here.Then the play proper starts, in thick darkness, with the repeated crash of guitar chords and a blitz of bright lights that define the proscenium frame, an effect repeated between the succeeding scenes. Gradually, two figures emerge. (Jane Cox did the superb, insinuating lighting.) One of them is Austin, crisply pressed, bespectacled, seated at a typewriter.Then there’s the bulky, tall guy by the sink. He looks like trouble — maybe a burglar who would happily pull a knife on you if cornered. To say that he is Austin’s brother does not contradict this impression. In Mr. Shepard’s universe, home invader and next of kin can easily be one in the same.Accept the satisfying shivers the moment provokes, sit back and get ready to enjoy the most perfectly distilled 50 minutes or so of classic Shepard you’re ever likely to see. What happens in the play’s first act is, on one level, routine family friction, with the attendant laundry list of grievances about who got the better deal growing up.But the uneasiness inherent in such encounters acquires a shimmering intensity, as in a nightmare that’s both set in a place you know and as alien as a distant planet. The two boys are obviously falling back into old patterns of taunting, resentful aggression (Lee) and tightly wound propitiation (Austin).Yet no matter the subject — a dinner plate with a map of Idaho, the screenplay Austin’s working on, their alcohol-demented old father or the months alone Lee spent in the Mojave Desert — it somehow feels as if the stakes couldn’t be higher. Not because Lee might be planning to loot the neighbors’ houses or bollix Austin’s deal with his producer (played with a Teflon shield of casualness by Gary Wilmes).No, what’s really at stake is their very identities, as Austin and Lee become increasingly exaggerated versions of their scrapping, younger selves. It’s a process rendered by Mr. Hawke and Mr. Dano with devastatingly defensive body language.A moment when Lee playfully, nastily dangles the car keys he’s taken from Austin feels potentially lethal. And all the while a blanket of nerve-twanging noise — chirping crickets, yipping coyotes, even children at play — seems not to connect but to isolate the brothers from the rest of the world. (Bray Poor’s sound design is inspired.)The end of the first act left me breathless. The second act — the celebrated, hilarious, tearing-down-the-house part — felt slightly off its rhythms at the preview performance I saw. It’s not that the evermore violent, frenzied and deliciously absurd action (I love the slew of stolen toasters) isn’t impeccably staged. But Mr. Dano was nailing the moves without making that final, essential leap into the void, and the tension sagged. I suspect he’ll get there as the play’s run continues.Mr. Hawke is already delivering a faultless performance, probably his best ever onstage and a worthy bookend to his Oscar-deserving turn as a faith-challenged priest in Paul Schrader’s recent film “First Reformed.” His slovenly, combustible Lee is revealed to be as terrified as he is terrifying, in ways you can’t help identifying with.Lee, by the way, has his own idea for a movie, a western. It’s a story of men chasing each other across a desert, in the dark.“They don’t know each one of ’em is afraid, see,” Lee says in a hypnotic monologue. “Each one separately thinks he’s the only one that’s afraid. And they keep riding like that straight into the night.” That’s a perfect précis of “True West,” a play that seems to grow in disturbing depth every time it comes back to haunt us.This information was last updated on March 6, 2019AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maria Abi-HabibNEW DELHI — It was an inauspicious moment for a military the United States is banking on to help keep an expanding China in check.An Indian Air Force pilot found himself in a dogfight last week with a warplane from the Pakistani Air Force, and ended up a prisoner behind enemy lines for a brief time.The pilot made it home in one piece, however bruised and shaken, but the plane, an aging Soviet-era MiG-21, was less lucky.[Read about how tensions have affected an American cricket team with players from both countries.] The aerial clash, the first by the South Asian rivals in nearly five decades, was a rare test for the Indian military — and it left observers a bit dumbfounded. While the challenges faced by the India’s armed forces are no secret, its loss of a plane last week to a country whose military is about half the size and receives a quarter of the funding was still telling.India’s armed forces are in alarming shape.If intense warfare broke out tomorrow, India could supply its troops with only 10 days of ammunition, according to government estimates. And 68 percent of the army’s equipment is so old, it is officially considered “vintage.”“Our troops lack modern equipment, but they have to conduct 21st-century military operations,” said Gaurav Gogoi, a lawmaker and member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defense.A simple guide to the roots of the conflict and what could happen next.American officials tasked with strengthening the alliance talk about their mission with frustration: a swollen bureaucracy makes arms sales and joint training exercises cumbersome; Indian forces are vastly underfunded; and the country’s navy, army and air force tend to compete rather than work together.Whatever the problems, the United States is determined to make the country a key ally in the coming years to hedge against China’s growing regional ambition.Last year, when Defense Secretary Jim Mattis announced that the Pentagon was renaming its Pacific Command — to Indo-Pacific — he emphasized India’s importance in a shifting world order.“It is our primary combatant command,” said Mr. Mattis, who left the Pentagon at the end of the year. “It’s standing watch and intimately engaged with over half of the earth’s surface and its diverse populations, from Hollywood to Bollywood.”The American military began prioritizing its alliance with India as its close relationship with Pakistan soured over the last two decades. United States officials are concerned that Pakistan is not doing enough to fight terrorism, a charge the country denies.In just a decade, United States arms sales to India have gone from nearly zero to $15 billion. But Pakistan can still draw on a powerful American-supplied arsenal.[To follow the growing hostilities between India and Pakistan, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]Indian officials say Pakistan used one of its F-16 fighter jets to down its MiG-21 last week. Islamabad rejected the claim, but on Sunday the American Embassy in Islamabad said the United States was looking into the report. The offensive use of an F-16 warplane against its neighbor might have been a violation of the sales agreement.“We are aware of these reports and are seeking more information,” the embassy said in a statement. “We take all allegations of misuse of defense articles very seriously.”However troubled its military, India holds an obvious strategic appeal to the United States by virtue of both its location and its size.India will soon become the world’s most populous country, on track to surpass China by 2024. It shares a long border with southern and western China and controls important territorial waters Beijing needs for its maritime trade routes.All that can help the United States try to box in its rival.“India’s sheer demographics, its long-term military potential, its geographic expanse — it makes India worth waiting for,” said Jeff Smith, a research fellow for South Asia at the Heritage Foundation in Washington and the author of “Cold Peace: China-India Rivalry in the 21st Century.”“As China rises and the United States fights to keep its dominance, it will need a swing state to tip the balance of power in the 21st century,” Mr. Smith said. “And that swing state is India. The United States knows this and is willing to be patient.”For India’s military, funding remains the biggest challenge.In 2018, India announced a military budget of some $45 billion. By comparison, China’s military budget that year was $175 billion. Last month, Delhi announced another $45 billion budget.It is not just a question of how much India spends on its military, but how it spends it.The majority of the money goes to salaries for its 1.2 million active duty troops, as well as pensions. Only $14 billion will be used to buy new hardware.“At a time when modern armies are investing hugely on upgrading their intelligence and technical capabilities, we need to be doing the same,” said Mr. Gogoi, the Parliament member.Unlike China, where an authoritarian government is free to set military policy as it wishes, India is a democracy, with all the messiness that can entail.Cutting troop levels so that the military can spend the money on buying modern equipment is not so simple. India’s military has long been a source of jobs for a country struggling with chronic underemployment. That is likely to be a big issue in elections scheduled for later this spring.Prime Minister Narendra Modi won elections in 2014 promising to reform the economy and provide the one million jobs needed each month to satisfy its growing work force. But with elections around the corner, Mr. Modi has shelved promises of economic reform and embraced the usual populist measures.“The thrust of this government is to focus more on economic development, which has to precede military strength,” said Amit Cowshish, a former defense ministry financial adviser for military acquisitions. “That was what China did — they focused on developing their economy and then focused on acquiring their current military stature. The difference is that China started 20 or 30 years ahead of us in terms of economic liberalization.”Government officials in New Delhi say they are struggling to improve the lives of their citizens in the most basic of ways — dealing with high illiteracy rates and poor sanitation infrastructure, as just two examples — making it hard to funnel more money toward the military at a time when China is making incursions into India’s backyard by land and sea.China has significantly outpaced its rival, creating a robust and taxable middle class. China’s economic boom has allowed it to invest aggressively in buying top military hardware and producing it at home.As the world’s conflicts are increasingly fought with state-of-the-art weaponry rather than the large invading armies of the past, India is falling behind. Despite being the fifth-largest military spender, only about a quarter of its military budget this year will purchase new equipment.Although the purchase of military hardware is a slow-moving process in most countries, in India it moves even more sluggishly amid a swollen bureaucracy.There are also concerns about corruption.Mr. Modi is currently being grilled by the opposition over a murky $8.9 billion deal to buy 36 Rafale fighter planes from France. His political opponents have cast the agreement as corrupt in an effort to discredit him ahead of elections.The purchase will help India replace its aging fleet of MiG-21s and other jets. And on Saturday, the prime minister tried to turn the tables on the opposition, saying India  would have fared better in its skirmish with Pakistan last week if it had had the Rafale jets.“The country has felt the shortage of Rafale,” Mr. Modi said.OpinionBasharat PeerAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySkin DeepHow a super-niche category got to be so buzzy.By Andrea ChengOnce perceived as health-conscious people by some, and very, very picky eaters by others, vegans are trending.The Economist declared 2019 as the year of the vegan, reporting that a quarter of millennials identify as vegan or vegetarian. Outspoken celebrities like Beyoncé and Jay-Z are encouraging fans to become vegan, if not for ethical reasons, then because of health and environmental benefits. In a 2018 report, the vegan food industry recorded 20 percent growth over the previous year, with sales peaking at $3.3 billion.This demand for all things vegan has made other industries take notice, especially beauty.“Beauty follows food because we use a lot of the same ingredients,” said Tata Harper, the founder of a namesake natural beauty brand that’s predominantly vegan. “If they’re good to ingest, then they’re typically great to apply topically.”Sunny Subramanian has been waiting for this moment since she introduced her Vegan Beauty Review site in 2007. An animal lover in Portland, Ore., Ms. Subramanian made the decision to go vegan 19 years ago. She cut meat, dairy and eggs from her diet; she stopped wearing leather, silk and wool. But with beauty, she was confronted with a problem: She couldn’t find any information online about vegan beauty brands. So she did something about it.“When I first started, it was crickets — I was the only vegan beauty blog,” Ms. Subramanian said. “Back in the day, we made up such a teeny-tiny percentage of the population.”There’s a lot of confusing jargon around vegan beauty — “cruelty-free” is one example, with many people assuming that they’re one and the same.Plain and simple, vegan beauty means the absence of animal ingredients, while cruelty-free refers to a product that doesn’t test on animals. In other words, it’s possible for a vegan item to have been tested on an animal and a cruelty-free product to contain animal ingredients.Adding to the confusion is the lack of Food and Drug Administration guidelines. A handful of organizations have rolled out insignia to signal whether a product is vegan or cruelty-free, the most distinguished being the Leaping Bunny Program, which grants certification to personal care and household product companies that ensure that no animal testing is done at any phase of the production process.“A finished product could say it’s cruelty-free, but that’s not good enough,” said Dennis Gross, a dermatologist and dermatologic surgeon whose skin-care line is certified by the Leaping Bunny Program. “Most animal testing occurs on the ingredient level, so with the Leaping Bunny Program, you’re 100 percent certain that no animal testing occurs in the laboratory.” PETA’s Beauty Without Bunnies Program lists every registered company that is either cruelty-free or both vegan and cruelty-free, and has corresponding logos to match. In Britain, the Vegan Society charity, the oldest vegan society in the world, has registered thousands of brands that are both vegan and cruelty-free.“It’s easy to pick a food item and decide if it’s vegan or not, but it’s more difficult with beauty,” said Dominika Piasecka, the media and public relations officer of the Vegan Society. “There’s a huge need for it to be labeled.”Common animal-derived ingredients found in beauty products include honey, beeswax, lanolin (wool grease), squalene (shark liver oil), carmine (crushed-up beetles), gelatin (cow or pig bones, tendons or ligaments), allantoin (cow urine), ambergris (whale vomit) and placenta (sheep organs). While they’re harmless, they’re not better for you, either, though the thought of smearing on the animal parts found in moisturizers, cosmetics and shampoos may be a deterrent.“Animal ingredients haven’t been proven to be superior in any way, and wholesome vegan alternatives do exist,” Dr. Gross said.But the term “vegan beauty,” which is synonymous with “plant-based,” can be misleading, too. It conjures up images of virtuous greens and, in turn, healthiness, which is not necessarily the case.“Chips are accidentally vegan, but they’re not healthy,” Ms. Subramanian said. “It’s the same with makeup. Just because it’s vegan and cruelty-free doesn’t make it healthy. “Its ingredient list can be chock-full of unhealthy chemicals and fillers.”The next step is to clean up the ingredient list without completely stripping away preservatives, which, Dr. Gross points out, can help maintain a product’s freshness. “Using only ingredients that are natural, you’ll often see separation and bacteria growth, which can lead to contamination and loss of efficacy,” he said. “With vegan beauty, you can use a pure nature-derived ingredient along with important additives to prevent them from spoiling. It’s in the right combination.”And there are plenty of brands — high-end and affordable — that are already doing just that, including Pacifica, Derma E and Le Labo, to name a few.“Vegan products don’t have to be super-expensive and hard to find,” Ms. Subramanian said, naming Wet n Wild and e.l.f. as budget-friendly vegan options. In the 30 years that Kathy Guillermo, a senior vice president of PETA, has campaigned to end the use of animals in laboratory experiments, she can pinpoint two industrywide shifts that spurred vegan awareness in beauty. The first was in 1990, when Estée Lauder and Revlon stopped testing on animals. Unfortunately, the very same companies began to sell in China, where animal testing is required on many beauty products. It caused backlash and consumer demand for cruelty-free products, which eventually led to the development of instrumentation to replace animal testing. The second is occurring now. In October, Unilever, the parent company of Dove, Axe, Dermalogica and many more, announced that it has committed to a policy of no animal testing across all of its product lines. “The big companies that held out for so long are now making a change,” Ms. Guillermo said. For many brands, she said, concern about the ethical and environmental impact of their products is the No. 1 consumer question they encounter.“I think consumers, especially millennials and Gen Zs, are looking to make purchases that are in line with their personal values,” said Dr. Gross, whose patients regularly ask about vegan and cruelty-free products. “It’s driving a big change in the industry.”Nine years ago, Dr. Gross converted his skin-care line to be cruelty-free and vegan, and it took three years to reformulate his offerings. (Now only two products in his 52-item lineup have animal-derived ingredients — pearl powder and beeswax — and those will be switched once he has found alternatives.)“It’s a more involved process to be vegan and cruelty-free because it’s cheaper and easier to do animal testing,” he said. “Clinical testing can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. But since we made the switch, we’ve been able to produce products that don’t compromise their effectiveness. We’re showing people it can be done.”Perhaps the biggest benefit to come out of the vegan beauty movement is that it’s pushing consumers to assess ingredients. “People are starting to question and research what they’re buying, and I think that’s empowering,” Ms. Piasecka said.All signs point to an industry that’s working toward being not only cleaner, but also vegan and cruelty-free. (CoverGirl, for instance, is now certified Leaping Bunny, the largest makeup brand to be so designated.) Ms. Subramanian used to know every vegan beauty brand. Now, she said, it’s impossible to keep up. “The future of the beauty industry is vegan and not animal-tested,” Ms. Guillermo said. “Not every company has realized this yet, but a lot of them have, and those are the ones that are going to get ahead and stay in business. We’re in discussions with enough of them to know that this is, without question, the trend.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. New Zealand prepares for funeral services, Deutsche Bank’s ties to President Trump come under greater scrutiny and Afghanistan receives a rare bit of good news. Here’s the latest: As victims’ families prepare for funeral services in Christchurch, we take a look at their stories.Among those killed at the two mosques were students, engineers, a dairy farmer, a new father and an aspiring pilot. Some were born in New Zealand and others had moved there.Today: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is expected to return to Christchurch. A day earlier, she delivered an impassioned speech to Parliament, saying she would do everything she could to deny the gunman attention.“He is a terrorist. He is a criminal. He is an extremist,” she said. “But he will, when I speak, be nameless.”Egg Boy: A teenager who shot to worldwide fame after smashing an egg on the head of an Australian far-right politician said that “a majority of the money” raised for him would go toward the victims of the shooting. (A GoFundMe page asked for money to cover legal fees and buy “more eggs.”)Go deeper: The suspect cited a racist conspiracy theory in his online manifesto. We explain what “the replacement theory” is and how it caught on among white supremacists.Before Mr. Trump was elected, the German bank gave him more than $2 billion in loans to finance skyscrapers and other high-end properties, despite pushback from some at the bank.For Deutsche Bank, Mr. Trump’s projects helped fund its investment-banking unit and his celebrity was used to lure more clients.Now, as investigators in New York and Washington scrutinize their financial ties, we examined their long and, at times, troubled bond.How we know: Deutsche Bank officials have said that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former executives and board members contradict that narrative. Read four takeaways from our investigation.Response: A Deutsche Bank spokeswoman said the company was “committed to cooperating with authorized investigations.” The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization, which declined to comment. The head of the country’s Olympic Committee, Tsunekazu Takeda, said he would resign at the end of his term in June amid a French corruption investigation into the bidding process for next year’s Summer Games.In December, French investigators indicted Mr. Takeda — a former Olympic equestrian and chairman of the International Olympic Committee’s marketing commission — as part of a broad criminal investigation that further stains the scandal-ridden reputation of the sporting event.Details: France suspects that the process of Tokyo’s win was tainted. They say that hopeful officials representing potential host cities paid bribes to African Olympic committee members to win support.Reminder: The Tokyo Olympics in 2020 will be Japan’s second time hosting the Summer Games and fourth games overall.Washington has been pushing Iraq to confront and sideline its neighbor, a move that has increased tensions not just with Baghdad but also within the Trump administration.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has been leading the effort, and under his proposed plans, the State Department would designate Iran’s military Islamic Revolutionary Guards as a foreign terrorist organization — a first for a unit of another government’s military.The plan would also expose Iraqi Shiite militias — some of which were trained by Iran’s Revolutionary Guards and several of which are legitimate players in Iraqi politics — to economic sanctions and travel restrictions.Pushback: American officials said that the plan would put U.S. troops and intelligence officers at risk of similar actions from foreign governments.ISIS: The spokesman of the terrorist group broke his monthslong silence to mock America’s assertion it had defeated the group, and to call for retaliation over last week’s mosque attacks in New Zealand. Separately, Iraqi truffle hunters have become the latest victims of the Islamic State kidnappings and killings.Cyclone Idai: A deadly cyclone struck Mozambique and neighboring parts of southern Africa this week, affecting 1.5 million people. The death toll is now in the dozens but is expected to rise far higher.U.S. flooding: Record floods pummeled the Midwest, inundating farmland and killing off livestock at a time when farmers and ranchers can least afford it.Cambodia: A government-controlled court issued arrest warrants for eight opposition leaders who have been living in exile but who say they have been trying to return. It’s the latest effort by Prime Minister Hun Sen to sideline opposition and maintain his decades-long grip on power.Britain: The Speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, has become an unlikely celebrity amid the chaos of Brexit, particularly after he denied Prime Minister Theresa May a third vote on her withdrawal plan.Google: The technology giant introduced a new video game streaming service, called Stadia, that will be released later this year, in an attempt to catch the next wave of gaming.PG&E: California’s largest utility company has been linked to wildfires that destroyed hundreds of thousands of acres and killed dozens of people. Regulators found that in many fires, the company violated state law or could have done more. Here’s how it overlooked the risks.Levi’s: On Thursday, for the second time in its 165-year history, the company that invented the blue jean will start trading on public markets. Levi’s has overhauled its image, operations and products in the past decade.Afghanistan: The country’s beloved cricket team won its first-ever Test match, against Ireland, providing a rare bit of good news for the war-torn nation.Australia: An artist has proposed building a giant wooden bong to draw tourists to the town of Woodenbong in New South Wales. “Hundreds and thousands of people share the same dream as soon as they hear the town’s name,” he said. Other residents, though, are unamused.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: A buttery yellow sheet cake with chocolate frosting and colorful sprinkles helps beat the midweek blues.If you’re thinking of asking a star in your field out for coffee so you can learn what makes her or him tick, here’s how to do it right.The explosively popular ketogenic diet is the latest low-carb fad to promise a beach body with a side order of bacon. Here’s the skinny on keto.We recently asked readers to send us their favorite odd facts. Mark Stewart, from Maryland, mentioned that the distinctive shape of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City could be seen in an earlier design for a Maryland tourist attraction.When the museum, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, opened in 1959, it was both praised (“Mr. Wright’s greatest building. New York’s greatest building”) and scorned (an “inverted oatmeal dish”).The museum took its cues from a design that Wright had experimented with before, initially for a project that was never built.In 1924, at the dawn of America’s love affair with automobiles, a businessman named Gordon Strong worked with Wright on an attraction at the top of Sugarloaf Mountain in Maryland that would “serve as an objective for short motor trips” from nearby Washington and Baltimore.Wright designed a circular building with drivable ramps that wound around the outside like a ribbon. Strong hated it, likening the design to the Tower of Babel, and the project was later abandoned.But Wright believed in his vision enough to return to it decades later, in an inverted form, when he was asked by the Guggenheim to design a “temple of the spirit, a monument.”Karen Thorne, a content strategist, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by‘It takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today.’By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistPROVIDENCE, R.I. — I did it. I found a significantly accomplished, defensibly qualified Democratic officeholder who isn’t flirting with — and hasn’t fantasized about — a presidential run in 2020. I had to take the train to Rhode Island, where we talked over pizza and eggplant parmigiana. We drank wine, too. It helps these days.Her name is Gina Raimondo. She’s the governor of this state. She just began her second term after being re-elected by a margin of more than 15 percentage points, and you would think that this commanding victory plus her youth (she’s 47), her working-class background, her educational pedigree (Harvard, Rhodes scholar, Yale Law), her role as the chairwoman of the Democratic Governors Association and her situation far from the nation’s swampy and unpopular capital would start chatter about a move there. But no. Crickets.The most obvious reason? Her relationship to the Democratic Party of the moment. Both stylistically and substantively, she’s out of sync with it.[Go beyond the headlines and behind the curtain with Frank Bruni’s candid reflections on politics, culture, higher education and more every week. Sign up for his newsletter.]She can’t tweet worth a damn and the same goes for Instagram. She winces at talk of a top marginal tax rate of 70 percent and cringes at the growing use of “corporatist” as a slur against Democratic politicians deemed too cozy with business interests. She thinks that big companies often need to be prodded forcefully to do right by their employees, but that it’s bad policy and bad politics to paint them as the enemy.She recalled an exchange with college students not long ago. One of them said: “I get who you are. You’re one of those spineless centrists.” “And I was like, ‘Excuse me?’,” she said. “It takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today. You get whacked from the left and whacked from the right. That’s my life. I get whacked.”Moderate Democrats have certainly had their day and their sway. In fact the passions of the left arise in part from how much compromise there has been — and here we are stuck with Donald Trump. The rage of less moderate Democrats like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is earned and righteous. And Raimondo said precisely that to me.But Ocasio-Cortez is by no means the whole of the Democratic Party. And is the leftward lurch that she personifies the best and safest bet for 2020? I worry, because there’s no political priority higher than limiting Trump to one term. Raimondo also worries — a lot.“So many Democrats just assume we’re going to win,” she said. “They underestimate how hard it’s going to be.” And it might be a serious tactical mistake, she added, to nominate any candidate who seems to be at war with capitalism itself or entertains the idea of a guaranteed minimum income.“We have become the party that is anti-business,” she told me. “We need to be the party of work.”She acknowledged that “the system we have today is totally broken.” She cited grotesque income inequality. She noted that too many Americans have no economic security and no prospects for achieving it.“But I fall in the camp of: Let’s fix it,” she said. “Let’s embrace business to come to the table. Someone needs to make the case that it’s in the best interest of businesses and wealthy people to be better corporate citizens. Pay for health care. Help people get their college degree. Pay for job training.”Along those lines, she recently proposed that companies doing business in Rhode Island be taxed up to $1,500 annually for every employee who is enrolled in Medicaid because he or she can’t get health insurance through a company-sponsored plan. “I hope that they’re embarrassed,” she said.But, she added, “Where I think we are at risk is if all we do is beat up and crap on businesses.”That’s an exaggeration of where the party is, but I take her point. And I’m fascinated by her unflashy example and the questions it raises about how we currently accord importance to politicians and how much that really relates to their impact.Journalists obsess over the most camera-ready emissaries and provocative assertions, and we often outsource our judgment to social media. To go viral is to be relevant. “In the future,” the Politico media columnist Jack Shafer wrote a few days ago, “your news source of choice will contain only stories about Donald Trump and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.” Shafer forgot Beto O’Rourke, which is funny, because he once wrote an excellent broadside about how political reporters can’t forget him.When I checked social media during Raimondo’s re-election campaign, I mostly saw people bashing her, and she wasn’t bothering to engage with that hate. I assumed she was in trouble.But she won her primary against a progressive rival by more than 20 points, then trounced her Republican opponent in the general election, 52.8 percent to 37.3 percent. (Third-party candidates received the remainder of the vote.) She had ample support in the end. It just didn’t show up on Twitter, where an overwhelming majority of Americans still spend no time at all.And that support undoubtedly reflects the concrete difference that Raimondo has made over the past four years. With aggressive tax incentives, she persuaded some two dozen companies to expand or establish operations in Rhode Island, creating what The Times’s Katharine Seelye described as a “frenzy of economic and job development.” For most of the year before she took office, the state’s unemployment rate was well above the nation’s; at the end of last month, it was the same — 3.9 percent.Thanks to her advocacy, Rhode Island is among a minority of states in which community college is free. And thanks to a tax that she levied on large commercial trucks, its awful infrastructure is receiving desperately needed repairs and upgrades.K-through-12 public education, however, remains a mess. And Raimondo has stains on her record, including the botched rollout of a $650 million public-assistance computer system that wasn’t ready, wreaking epic havoc. To get re-elected, she raised — and spent — significantly more money than her opponents. And many Democrats fairly question whether her corporate giveaways had to be as generous as they were.But some of them obviously backed her anyway. “At the end of the day,” Raimondo said, “people want a decent job, and I think they thought that I was the candidate who was going to bring that to them and their families.”And that’s a political reality — and a glimpse into the electorate — that shouldn’t be forgotten as Democrats plot their course. The media attention to full-throttle progressives among newly elected House Democrats is disproportionate to their numbers, and it sometimes obscures a sizable, practical middle. Besides, their more moderate peers are the ones who wrested seats from Republicans in districts that, like America, aren’t deep red or emphatically blue.“I don’t think the lefties can win a general election,” Raimondo said. But, she conceded, “Who knows? I’m not running in 2020.  I could have missed the boat.”I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni). Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jeffrey Gettleman, Maria Abi-Habib and Salman MasoodNEW DELHI — Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan announced on Thursday that his country would be releasing a captured pilot from India after days of military conflict, offering a way out of the crisis and seeking to position Pakistan as the cooler head in a confrontation that has put the world on edge.“In our desire of peace, I announce that tomorrow, and as a first step to open negotiations, Pakistan will be releasing the Indian Air Force officer in our custody,” Mr. Khan said.After hours of relative lull throughout Thursday, the gesture appeared to be a face-saving opening for both countries to head off a war. But Indian officials were guarded, saying that the pilot’s release would not necessarily end the crisis, which they said was rooted in Pakistan’s support of terrorist groups that strike at India.The days before had brought both nations to the brink. On Tuesday, Indian warplanes dropped bombs inside Pakistan — it is not clear what they hit — and Pakistan shot down at least one Indian fighter jet on Wednesday. Tens of thousands of troops have been rushed to the countries’ border, heavy artillery barrages and gunfire have been volleyed across it, and tank columns have been chugging into place for what many feared could turn into a full-blown war.Both nations wield nuclear weapons, and China, the United States, Britain and many other countries have been urging them to step away from conflict, which began after a suicide bomber killed more than 40 Indian paramilitary troops in the disputed region of Kashmir on Feb. 14. India accuses Pakistan of aiding in the attack, which was claimed by the terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammed, but Pakistan has denied it.At a news conference after his summit meeting in Vietnam on Thursday, President Trump said that there was “reasonably decent” news coming from India and Pakistan and “hopefully it’s going to be coming to an end.”From the beginning of the showdown, Pakistan’s military publicity wing has demonstrated a knack for dominating the narrative. In particular, the almost immediate official circulation of videos that appeared to show the Indian pilot being first protected from a mob by Pakistani forces, and then remarking on how well he was being treated (“The tea is fantastic!” he said in one clip), became a virally blooming propaganda coup on social media.But on Thursday, Indian officials insisted that was part of the problem — and made a point of noting that displaying prisoners for propaganda purposes violates the Geneva Conventions.They suggested that Mr. Khan’s move was an empty ploy that ignored the real problem between the two countries. A senior Indian official told reporters in New Delhi that even if the captured pilot were returned home, there would be no chance “to go back to zero” and ease tensions unless Pakistan acted against terrorist groups that it has traditionally used as proxies against India.Some observers said that much of the Indian public — and particularly among Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s conservative Hindu political base — had little appetite to take Mr. Khan up on his second offer of the day: to engage in direct talks with Mr. Modi in order to defuse the crisis.“Over the decades there’s been a real exhaustion and fatigue with Pakistan, and any Indian right now is fed up with Pakistan’s lack of action against terror,” said Alyssa Ayres, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “Indians feel Pakistan is not genuine in its calls for dialogue.”Pakistan has, however, been better about wielding its public information campaigns.For instance, when India for the first time in almost 50 years sent fighter jets into Pakistani airspace to launch airstrikes, it was Pakistan that took to social media first.Hours before any comment from India, a Pakistani military officer tweeted that Indian warplanes had bombed an empty forest and the officer posted photographs showing some craters in the dirt. Later, India claimed to have destroyed a terrorist training camp, but had no evidence to show for it.On Wednesday, after reports started surfacing online that Pakistan had shot down an Indian fighter jet and captured the pilot, Indian officials denied it. Hours later, they said during a stiff news conference that lasted less than 100 seconds that one Indian pilot was “missing in action.”A simple guide to the roots of the conflict and what could happen next.But again, Pakistan had the jump. For three hours – an eternity in social media time — videos were going viral on Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp showing the captured Indian airman in a Pakistan military facility talking with Pakistani officers.In public, Mr. Khan, a former international cricket star who became prime minister last summer, has tried to appear calm. Early in the crisis, he called for de-escalation, and promised to investigate any evidence linking Pakistan to Jaish-e-Mohammed’s bombings, if India would only share the evidence.And on Wednesday, even as he claimed that Pakistan had had no choice but to retaliate for India’s airstrikes around Balakot the day before, he also expressed concern that the two countries must calm hostilities rather than risk nuclear war.Behind the calm exterior, though, is the widespread belief that Pakistan is in no shape right now to wage a major war. Its economy is in deep trouble, with the country running out of hard currency. And most other nations — including China, which has traditionally taken Pakistan’s side in disputes — have pressed Pakistan to take more action against terrorist groups.In the propaganda war of the past few days, both countries have been guilty of missteps. Pakistan maintained for a day that it had shot down two Indian fighter jets and captured two pilots, only later revising it down to one on each count.But it is India that has suffered the more glaring contradictions. The government has yet to offer any evidence publicly for its claim that it downed a Pakistan plane, which Indian officials say crashed beyond their border. Likewise, India has offered no proof that its initial airstrike on Tuesday killed “a very large number” of “terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of jihadis,” as India’s foreign secretary has claimed.Videos of a crushed building filled with bodies that soon began circulating widely on social media in India were quickly debunked. The images were not from the airstrike but from an earthquake in Pakistan more than 10 years ago.This is beginning to take its toll on Mr. Modi, who is up for election in about two months and who until recently seemed invincible. But in some sectors, he is now being accused of military adventurism. One family of a fallen soldier called the government a liar.Other Indians seem frustrated.“The government has been lax and inaccurate in the way information is being let out,’’ said Mohammad Saquib, who works at a hotel in Delhi.On the Pakistani side, initial fears that the confrontation could slip into war appeared to give way to jubilation at the news that an Indian jet had been shot down and that the pilot, identified by India as Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman, had been captured.Even in the Pakistani media, which has suffered from intense repression by the security forces and initially was introspective about the military’s relationship with militant groups, skepticism has given way to triumphalism. Most criticism was shelved once Indian warplanes crossed Kashmir’s Line of Control on Tuesday.By Thursday morning, upbeat news anchors appeared on television screens across Pakistan donning military fatigues, and journalists waved their national flag while delivering breaking developments.Saadia Afzal, a popular Pakistani news anchor, tweeted a photo of herself posing in front of the wreckage of the downed Indian plane, surrounded by soldiers. “Take that India,” she tweeted.“The Indian media was so jingoistic that even the most critical Pakistanis changed their position and said they were going to stand by their military and state,” said Raza Ahmad Rumi, the editor for The Daily Times in Lahore.Perhaps the most telling moment in the information war came on Thursday, when Pakistan seized what could have been India’s triumphant moment, the return of the pilot.On Thursday afternoon, the whispers from advisers in Mr. Modi’s government were that top Indian generals were ready to make a major announcement at 5 p.m. But well before that time, there was Mr. Khan, standing in Parliament and breaking the news, on live television, that Pakistan would unilaterally send the Indian pilot home.Jeffrey Gettleman and Maria Abi-Habib reported from New Delhi, Salman Masood from Islamabad, Pakistan, and Meher Ahmad from Lahore, Pakistan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byDuring class, my mind is too afraid to wander, so it goes into overdrive. By Mohammed HanifMr. Hanif is a Pakistani novelist.LAHORE, Pakistan — I am a self-hating yoga practitioner. I used to wonder: If I don’t like yoga, why do I do it? I pretend to do it only for health benefits. I really just do it for savasana. For those who haven’t practiced yoga: Toward the end of the class you are asked to lie down and stay still, the lights are usually turned down, and you are supposed to do nothing, think nothing. Savasana is the opposite of activity.Doing nothing is my favorite thing in life. I believe in the ancient practice of doing nothing. I believe that this planet is doomed because we so believe in doing things that now the world’s most recognized dictum is “Just do it.” But how can you think nothing? Especially when you’re told to think nothing?In yoga, after you have elevated your heart above your head in Downward Dog and after you have reared your head like a cobra many times over, you are finally allowed to let your shoulders sag and your body go, and to set your mind free. My mind is too afraid of thinking nothing, so it usually goes into overdrive.Before I knew the literal meaning of savasana, I used to send my mind on anxiety hunts. A therapist once told me that one way to deal with your anxieties is to chase them, to hunt them down. “Think what’s making you anxious,” she said, “and think of the absolute worst that can happen, multiply it by 10, and then you’ll realize that the present isn’t that bad after all.”The yoga instructor says, “Breathe into your pose.” Sometimes I forget to breathe because I am busy making lists. Like a list of my random anxieties. The traffic outside is terrible; will I find parking outside Haji Stores? Those brown eggs they sell — are they really organic or just free range? Breathe. I can hear people breathing around me. They’ve probably cleared their heads, slain all their anxieties, and I’m wondering if I’ll get any likes for that random half-clever thing I tweeted before the class.I do journalism in three languages, so my capacity for distractions is threefold. While I am going through the shopping list — milk, brown bread, cigarettes and what’s that thing I’m forgetting? — I am also prepping for my little boy’s dinner and thinking about how much flour to add to the soup. Last night, it was too thin; the night before that, too thick. How not to burn the chicken nugget? My son ostensibly is a yoga baby. He was conceived right after my wife started yoga. I have been told off by my wife for thinking of yoga as a competitive sport, but sometimes yoga instructors remind me of the drill sergeants of my youth. Drill sergeants trapped in poets’ bodies. They talk a lot about the soul. But maybe they have a soul and I don’t. And how can I harness something I don’t have?Halfway through my years of yoga distractions, I searched online for the word “savasana.” And that changed yoga for me: Savasana means “corpse pose.”When I moved to a new class, my new teacher said: “Don’t worry. It’s your first week, you’ll get better at it.” I was so smug in my knowledge that I’ll never be good enough that I didn’t tell her I had been doing yoga for three years. In the previous class, I had occasionally heard, “Well done, Hanif.” I always wanted to say: That 20-year-old girl who does the bridge like a bridge and becomes a tree when she does a tree, that’s good. I am just a recipient of your good yogi intentions. I am just a corpse with lists.“Breathe into the pain,” the yoga teacher says, and I think of other corpses that I have seen in recent years.I had a musician friend once who found out that he was about to die and he started writing poetry. Did everyone say that he was good because they knew that he was dying? I knew he was always good at poetry. He used to have a book on yoga but never practiced it.Inhale. Hold. Exhale.Another friend died. He wasn’t a poet or a singer. But he was very funny. And sometimes not funny at all. I miss him more because he didn’t leave any poetry behind. He probably would have approved of my doing yoga, and then made fun of me and told me there is no such thing as free-range chicken.And another friend died. She was funny, fierce and tender. She made a life out of being that. She never had time for yoga. Only street cricket. I console myself by thinking that all of them are in an eternal savasana without any lists.The yoga teacher says, hug yourself. I do hug myself, but I am thinking: Here’s a grown-up telling other grown-ups to hug themselves. I hug myself and think of a friend who is still alive. He was the first person in our group to discover yoga. He had chronic asthma. He took some classes, saved money, wrangled a visa to India and studied with some famous yoga teachers. We lost touch. Recently I found out that he has become much sought after as a yoga teacher and does only private classes.I ran into him and we arranged to meet for lunch. He told me what yoga has done for him. He is a mountain climber now, a serious one. He has reached eight of the world’s highest peaks. He saved $50,000 by teaching yoga. That’s the amount it takes to climb Mount Everest. Some people do it for much more. He said he did it the simple way.We recalled that when we were young and lived on the same street and used to send out our C.V.s, employers looked at our address and threw them away. Our address was known for having constant troubles and long curfews. My friend, a lower-middle-class boy, has cured his own asthma through yoga, then gone on to climb the world’s highest peak. In the class, I cheat on my breathing exercises and wait for savasana to begin.Mohammed Hanif (@mohammedhanif) is the author of the novels “A Case of Exploding Mangoes,” “Our Lady of Alice Bhatti” and “Red Birds.” He is a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Peter S. GoodmanLONDON — In theory at least, we understand the words on the sports radio we hear incessantly — in taxis, at the fish and chips place, at the corner newsstand. But we are foreigners here and the stories are inscrutable, full of happenings from cricket ovals and rugby pitches.Our sports focus is confined to our darkened living room, where my 7-year-old son, Leo, and I have lately been absorbing improbable happenings from the other side of the Atlantic — one exhilarating victory after another for our suddenly mighty Brooklyn Nets.This has become our early-morning ritual. Wife and daughter still asleep, the boys watch the action from the night before, the scores carefully hidden from our N.B.A. League Pass app lest we ruin the ending.We are basketball expatriates, two steps removed from the initial source of my N.B.A. obsession by a change of team loyalties and a move to London.In our North London surroundings, we may as well be rooting for a badminton team from Bhutan. While the odd LeBron James jersey can be spotted, our Brooklyn Nets gear seemingly fades into the sea of Yankees caps brought home by tourists returning from New York (oblivious to the hate they are inspiring from this Mets fan) and the endless Brooklyn-related mumbo jumbo that now adorns T-shirts worldwide.[Nets’ Run to the Playoffs Hits a Snag With Spencer Dinwiddie Injury]While N.F.L. gear is a common sighting, owing to the constant staging of American football games here, N.B.A. basketball is largely invisible. One imagines this was unaltered by the recent showdown of two of the league’s most dreadful teams, the Knicks and the Washington Wizards, inside London’s unlovable O2 arena. (We did not attend, just as we do not take leisure trips to see the dentist.)Our sports-related conversations with Britons tend to revolve around the astronomical ticket prices required to see Arsenal, the English Premier League soccer team Leo has decided that we love forever. Our Nets fandom is like membership in a secret society, whose disclosure would mark us as eccentric and produce puzzlement.Even my Knick fan friends back in New York do not want to hear about the Nets via email. My only real communion comes via obscure Nets-related podcasts I listen to while washing the dishes. When Bill Simmons and Zach Lowe devoted perhaps 3 minutes of a recent pod to the Nets surge, I confess to feelings of pride and validation I can only liken to a U.F.O. conspiracy theorist hearing that the government is probing the sighting of a flying saucer.My embrace of the Nets began seven years ago when the Knicks — the only team I had ever rooted for — shunned a gift from the basketball gods by letting Jeremy Lin leave town. It was the final indignity after years of atrocious basketball. I dumped my Knicks season tickets and adopted the fledgling club whose arena had just risen over my Brooklyn neighborhood.I did not do so lightly. As a born-and-bred New Yorker, I saw abandoning a team as a serious breach of the tribal code. I disdained fans from other cities who rooted for two teams in the same sport. I was unremittingly harsh to the worst transgressor of all: the bandwagon fan. (If that Steph Curry jersey you own was the first Warriors gear in your closet, yes, I’m talking about you.)But I was hopping on no bandwagon. With the exception of a pair of distant trips to the N.B.A. finals, the New Jersey-turned-Brooklyn Nets were a pathetic franchise. I was living in Brooklyn. My father had grown up in Queens and traveled on a streetcar to watch the Dodgers at Ebbets Field. I was not abandoning my tribe. I was returning to it.This is what I told myself as I began reading about the odd collection of players I was now rooting for, trying to divine the narrative that would make it real. I fought through a sense of exile in the slick, new Barclays Center, which was full of fans for whom the game itself appeared peripheral to the cool Brooklyn food, the dancing during timeouts, and whatever fascinating things were happening on their phones.Yes, it was a gorgeous arena with excellent sightlines and welcoming staff. The season tickets I bought the day the Knicks said goodbye to J-Lin put me in seats that were a 10-minute walk from my house in Prospect Heights. Madison Square Garden was a cramped dump reached via a creaking subway and a walk through the bowels of Penn Station.Yet there was something about the Garden, even as the Dolan era yielded a lost decade of basketball. The crowd understood. Hustle plays drew appreciation in an arena that had revered Charles Oakley. The energy was electric.In Brooklyn, the mostly mercenary fans got what we deserved: a team of past-their-prime castoffs imported by the bombastic Russian magnate, Mikhail Prokhorov, who had brought the franchise to Brooklyn. Vowing to spend whatever it took to eclipse the Knicks — a low bar — he built a bonfire of money at the corner of Flatbush and Atlantic.In came the wildly overpaid Joe Johnson, a seven-time All-Star. In came the mediocre Gerald Wallace in exchange for a first-round pick that Portland turned into Damian Lillard. The centerpiece was the sullen, out-of-shape Deron Williams who, in another lifetime, looked like the best point guard on earth, and whose passions no longer appeared to include basketball.They fit uneasily around the likable 7-footer, Brook Lopez, whose sweet shooting came along with rebounding and defensive skills that seemed better suited for other pursuits, like calligraphy.My history as a Knicks fan made the plan feel familiar. Win now, baby! The future was for losers. The oligarch was buying his way to competitiveness pronto. Leaving no doubt, the Nets soon traded every first-round pick until the sun dies for the remains of Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett.When it all unraveled and the Nets descended into an unwatchable state, I hung in. You can not renounce the team of your life and then walk away from your new one because they are terrible. Real fandom is forged in suffering. Even when my family traded Brooklyn for London in 2016, we remained Nets fans.This happily coincided with another development: The Nets bucked the conventional wisdom that New York fans will not accept rebuilding and embraced patience.Sean Marks, the general manager, somehow turned a collection of mostly indifferent veterans into a raffish crew of young, hungry players led by a first-time head coach, Kenny Atkinson. They run at a ferocious pace, share the ball with grace, and play with joy.Since an excruciating eight-game losing streak, the Nets have won 18 of 23. Even from afar, we can tell that the intensity has changed at the Barclays, the Brooook-Lyyyyn chants filling our London living room.And still, an intense New York team deserves better. Back for the holidays, I took Leo to see New Orleans and their marquee star, Anthony Davis, at Barclays. The place was packed with tourists who seemed intent on taking selfies and buying Brooklyn gear at the swag shop.Whatever.On Saturday morning, we will sit on the couch in our pajamas, Leo and me, and see what happened against the now-hated, if pitiful, Knicks the night before.Please don’t tell us who won.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Robert D. McFaddenFred Thompson, who founded a Brooklyn track club for girls and young women in 1963 and coached national and Olympic medalists as he championed the cause of female track-and-field athletes for a half-century, died on Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 85.Lorna Forde, a former track star for Mr. Thompson, said the cause was complications of Alzheimer’s disease.A lawyer and former New York State assistant attorney general, Mr. Thompson founded the Atoms Track Club of Brooklyn in a Bedford-Stuyvesant community center, mostly out of frustration with New York City public schools that, for budgetary and other reasons, limited the participation of girls, but not necessarily of boys, in physical education and high school sports.Mr. Thompson was also the founding organizer of the annual Colgate Women’s Games, the nation’s largest amateur track series for women. Since 1974, the games, open to girls and women from elementary school through college (and with a competitive division for women over 30), have attracted thousands of participants, mostly from East Coast states, to various venues from Boston to Virginia.A former track star at Boys High School in Brooklyn and the City College of New York, Mr. Thompson inspired remarkable loyalty in his Atoms, which often had 40 to 50 members. Most were runners, some as young as 9, but most were teenagers who regarded him as a counselor, friend and father figure. He paid nearly all the expenses of the club, which was independent of schools or sponsors.Early on, the Atoms practiced in community center hallways or in locked schoolyards (by scaling fences at twilight). But he eventually found a home for the club at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.His coaching combined sophisticated training techniques with one-on-one skull sessions. And beyond coaching, he demanded good grades and personal responsibility from his athletes.“The Atoms doesn’t really stand for track,” he told The New York Times in 1978. “The Atoms stands for excellence in education, trying to better yourself in this society, and one way to do that is to go to college and get that piece of paper.”For many Atoms, the club was a refuge from broken homes and lives of poverty, as well as a path to education and upward mobility. In time, despite financial and logistical obstacles and a lack of the public support that flows readily to football, basketball and baseball, the club became a symbol of inner-city success as its runners won regional, national and finally Olympic recognition.Its stars included Cheryl Toussaint-Eason, a silver medalist at the 1972 Munich Olympics in the 1,600-meter relay and a gold medalist at the Pan American Games; Diane Dixon, who won Olympic gold in Los Angeles in 1984 in the 400-meter relay and was an 11-time national indoor champion; and Grace Jackson-Small, the silver medalist in the 200-meter sprint at the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. Mr. Thompson was an assistant coach of the United States track team in Seoul.Many of the Atoms’ victories could not be clocked by stopwatches. In its first 15 years, the club produced 50 college graduates, a remarkable record given the economic status of their families. They became teachers, lawyers, nurses, psychologists, entrepreneurs — and mothers. “One’s a doctor now, and another runs a study program in a state college,” Mr. Thompson told The Times in 1979.“But we’ve lost some, too,” he added. “We had a little girl we called Cricket who still holds the 100-yard dash record for 12- and 13-year-olds. But the streets got her. She stopped coming to practice. Another girl, a shot-putter named Diane, they found her dead from an overdose of drugs. I made all my girls go to her funeral. It wasn’t easy. They were crying. They took it hard. But I thought it was something they should see.”The coach often sounded like a father, although he was a bachelor and had no children. “I’ve always been single,” he told the Times sportswriter Gerald Eskenazi in 1985. “I came close to getting married twice. I miss not having a kid. People say, ‘You have many kids,’ but it’s not the same.”Frederick Delano Thompson was born in Brooklyn on May 21, 1933. When he was 5, his parents, Hector Joseph Thompson and Evelyn Cethas, split up, and Fred and his brother, John, were sent to live with an aunt, Ira Johnson, who had a deep influence on the boys.“Life is two things,” Mr. Thompson recalled her saying. “One, get an education, because once you have a college diploma nobody can take that away from you. And two, get involved with people.”Fred followed both suggestions. He grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant and graduated from Boys High in 1950. At City College, he began as a chemical engineering major but switched to history and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in 1955. He then studied law at St. John’s University, earning his degree in 1958.After two years in the Army, he was admitted to the state bar in 1961 and opened a private law practice in Brooklyn. He worked mostly on negligence cases.Aware of the city’s shortage of track facilities for the young, and particularly concerned about limited girls’ participation in intramural and interscholastic sports activities, Mr. Thompson followed his aunt’s advice to become involved. He became a civilian volunteer with the Police Athletic League and then founded the Atoms Track Club. Soon he had dozens of members.“Most of them are not from circumstances and surroundings that you would call ideal,” he told The Times. “They have home problems, social problems, boy problems and many other problems. You can’t just sweep these under the rug if you want to see them develop their talents and succeed in life. So I involve myself.”A decade later, in 1972, the landmark federal legislation known as Title IX, which banned sex discrimination in any educational program receiving federal funds, became law. It was the beginning of a sea change for female athletes. Before the law, about 310,000 girls and women in America were participating in high school and college sports. Today, federal officials say, there are 3.3 million.Mr. Thompson, who handled legal cases for ABC-TV, the Federal Trade Commission and Madison Square Garden and was an assistant state attorney general from 1967 to 1969, gave up law practice in 1974, when he became the full-time paid director of the Colgate Women’s Games. Sponsored by Colgate-Palmolive, the games have been a huge, complex operation, often attracting as many as 20,000 competitors of all ages.He remained the coach of the Atoms until after the turn of the century, when its membership began to dwindle, and directed the Colgate Women’s Games for 40 years until his retirement in 2014.Mr. Thompson, whose brother died some years ago, leaves no immediate survivors. He had Alzheimer’s disease in recent years but remained at his home in Brooklyn, cared for by Ms. Forde, one of his best and most devoted former runners. A sprinter from Barbados, she competed in the 1972 and 1976 Summer Olympics and in the 1975 Pan American Games.“Fred Thompson is one of those special people that a sport such as track and field needs,” the Times columnist Dave Anderson wrote in 1979. “In the big money sports, a coach can always dream of going on to a lucrative career in college or in the pros. In track and field, there is no big money as there is in football or basketball. In track and field, the love of the sport is true; the dream is pure.”Advertisementcorner officeIn her conservative Brahmin family in India, education was everything. That prepared her to thrive in corporate America and rise to become chief executive of PepsiCo. Indra Nooyi, a former chief executive of PepsiCo.CreditCreditErik Tanner for The New York TimesSupported byBy David GellesWhen Indra Nooyi stepped down as chief executive of PepsiCo last year, she was replaced by a man — and the ranks of female C.E.O.s further dwindled. Today, fewer than 5 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 are led by women. Ms. Nooyi’s absence will be particularly notable. During her 12 years running Pepsi, she increased the company’s top-line revenues while expanding its offerings to include healthier foods. At the same time, she fended off activist investors calling for higher short-term profits. Her tenure was not without controversy, though. Health advocates pushed the company to reduce the amount of salt, sugar and fat in its products. Pepsi was accused of deceptive marketing practices. And Ms. Nooyi was among the business leaders who stepped down from presidential advisory councils after President Trump’s response to the violence in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017. Though the White House reportedly considered Ms. Nooyi to be World Bank president, she did not wind up with the job. Instead, she will be teaching at West Point, and recently joined the board of Amazon. This interview, which was condensed and edited for clarity, was conducted in New York. You joined the board of Amazon just after its about-face on building a new headquarters in New York. What happened? New York was making an investment in Amazon in the short term to get many years of benefits. It’s very hard to explain the many years of benefits. People just worry about what short-term investment you’re giving. It was a big loss for New York.Philosophically, where do you stand on this?It’s a competitive environment. Every state is competing for those jobs. So it becomes a race between the states, each one putting up the right incentives to get the companies. I’m not sure the companies themselves are demanding it. I think they just said, “We want another headquarters,” and there’s a feeding frenzy from all the states.Should companies really participate in this race to the bottom and pit states against one another? If companies don’t get the incentives, the shareholders are going to say, “Why didn’t you get the incentives?” I’ve heard that before. “Did you get the incentives from the state? Did you get the maximum tax reductions from the state?” The shareholder community expects it from you.What was your childhood like? I grew up in Madras, which is now Chennai. We never lacked for anything, but we didn’t have much. It was a good, conservative Brahmin family, deeply steeped in learning and education. That was the only focus. The expectation was you would get, at a minimum, a master’s degree. If you got a Ph.D., you’re better off. We were the ultimate nerds. The only difference was, in my case, I decided to be a nerd in some ways and branch out in other ways. I played cricket. I climbed trees. I played the guitar. I did all those wild and wacky things.What was it like for you when you arrived in the U.S. to attend the Yale School of Management?I got dropped off in New Haven and had nobody to help me. They didn’t have support systems for international students. They gave you a map and said: “Go register for classes here. Go do this there.” I was a vegetarian, so I didn’t know what to eat. I needed curds for every meal, but I didn’t know where to get them. Then somebody said: “It’s the same as yogurt. Go get yogurt.” The first few weeks were very tough. But little by little, the international students banded together, because we were all miserable without any support systems. Pretty soon, we were having a wonderful time. What were the big takeaways from your time at Yale? The school had just started, and the basic belief, which is more relevant now than ever, was that companies are members of society, and what you do has to be viewed as through a stakeholder lens, not just a shareholder lens. They steeped all of us in that thinking.There was a moment early in your career when you had the chance to go to a few different companies, including G.E. and Monsanto. Why did you choose Pepsi? Wayne Calloway, who was then C.E.O. of Pepsi, was a man of few of words. He called me at the last minute, just before I was going to join G.E., and made an amazing pitch. He was on the board of G.E., and he said: “I hear you’re going to join G.E. It’s a great company, and Jack Welch is a great C.E.O. But my need at Pepsi is greater than Jack’s. We don’t have somebody like you here, and you’ll make a bigger difference at PepsiCo.” They didn’t have somebody of my ethnicity or international outlook who was female in senior management at PepsiCo. When did you start thinking about the need for Pepsi to be more than a soda and snacks company? The first recognition came, I think, in 2000, when I was head of strategy. The marketplace was changing. It was changing slowly, but we had to make some moves before it changed too fast. We could see articles on health and wellness were picking up speed. We bought Quaker Oats in 2000 because we had no food brand that could play in the morning. It was also clear that beverage habits were changing. Our own employees’ consumption was changing. It went from regular Pepsi to Diet Pepsi and Pepsi Max. Everywhere you looked, you could see that consumption of low-calorie, zero-calorie products was increasing.How do you get a big multinational company to buy into such a dramatic change in strategy? If the C.E.O. doesn’t feel the change, as opposed to just talking about the change, people will see right through it. So the first thing I had to do was make sure that whenever I talked to employees about it, I shared experiences, observations, data. I talked about water shortages in parts of the world. I would show them examples of plastic waste, the lack of recycling programs and what that could do to the environment. And I would talk about people’s consumption of fat, sugar and salt.We had town halls and invited the spouses of employees to come. At one in Egypt, a lady stood up and said, “My husband’s going to be mad I’m saying this, but I have a kid who’s 2, and I read every label, and I’m not willing to give my child all PepsiCo products.”Plenty of people questioned the strategy. What made you stick with it? Our board bought into the strategy. If your board is not on your side, it doesn’t work. But they said, “What you’re doing with the portfolio, what you’re doing with the whole environment and sustainability issue, what you’re going to do with the focus on diversity — this is the right way to move the company forward.”And I told them: “This means that I’m not going to focus on beating every index. I’m going to focus on duration of returns, rather than level of returns for a short time.” And the board said, “Yes, that’s the right way to go at it.”But if you’re really committed to health, why keep selling soda and chips? Mountain Dew is a fantastic brand. It’s a great franchise. I’m not here to tell you what to eat or drink. My job is to give you a choice of products, between fun for you, better for you and good for you. I’ll give you nutritious products. I’ll give you low-calorie products. I’ll give you indulgent products.I have to make sure that the good-for-you products aren’t more expensive than the fun-for-you products, and that the good-for-you products don’t taste awful while the fun-for-you products taste great. But if I make all the products ubiquitously available, priced reasonably the same and they all taste great, ultimately it’s a consumer choice. And if I put the right amount of advertising dollars between the whole portfolio, I’m letting the consumer decide.What did you learn from your time fighting with activists such as Nelson Peltz?I always told Nelson: “You may be an external activist, but I’m an internal activist. I’ve got a lot of stock. So if you have an idea to improve the company, I’ll implement it. But if you have a radical, short-term idea that destroys the company in the long term, uh-uh, ain’t going to work. I’m not going to do it, and my board is not going to accept it.”What was it like working with President Trump on the Strategic and Policy Forum? Each of the meetings was constructive. He gave us his undivided attention. He listened to everything we had to say. And he could not have been nicer. He went out of his way to drink Diet Pepsi when I was there. Was it a mistake to disband the forum after his response to the violence in Charlottesville?Yes and no. We all regretted disbanding the forum. But the fact of the matter is, there were other issues that took the focus away from the good work we were doing. And when you’re facing that sort of criticism, it’s very hard to remain engaged.What is it going to take to get more women in the C-suite? The issue is not women in the C-suite, it’s a leaky pipeline. The pipeline is leaking at the early stages. Because we get enough women coming into the work force in various stages. But by the time they get to Level 2 and Level 3, they just drop out of the work force for several reasons. One that can be addressed quickly is this tremendous unconscious bias. On top of that, the time that they get to Level 2 in a company is when they will have families, and many companies are not mandated to give parental leave. People just drop out of the work force, and then we wonder why they don’t go up to the top. We can ill afford to be a country where women drop out of the work force.David Gelles is the Corner Office columnist and a business reporter. Follow him on LinkedIn and Twitter.  @dgelles AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesWelcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.By Manny Fernandez in Donna, Tex.It’s springtime on the border, and that means the winter season is winding down — the months when tens of thousands of retirees from Minnesota, South Dakota, Illinois and other parts of the Midwest adopt South Texas as their home away from home.Retirees in swimsuits ride their bicycles to the pool, bright noodles tucked under their arms like jousting lances. They line the streets for golf-cart parades. They venture into Mexico, shopping for cheap medicine, getting pedicures, undergoing low-cost dental work and sipping goblet-sized margaritas.They are known as Winter Texans, and they concentrate mainly in the Rio Grande Valley, the temperate region deep in South Texas that is also the place where the largest number of migrants has been crossing lately from Central America — President Trump has declared a national emergency along the border and stationed Army troops to help control the escalating influx. One of their base camps was a quarter-mile from where seniors at the Victoria Palms resort in Donna deploy by the dozens to occupy five pickleball courts.The annual invasion of Midwesterners — and a number of Canadians — has decreased in recent years, but they remain an economic and cultural force. An estimated 106,000 Winter Texans spent about $528 million in the valley in the 2017-18 winter season, according to a survey by the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley. Tex-Mex restaurants fly welcome banners for them. There are Winter Texan newspapers, age-qualified RV parks, expos, cruises, theater productions and bumper stickers — one pickup truck in the border city of McAllen had two: “Iowa Winter Texan” and “I’m retired. Go around.”“It gets me out of the snowbanks,” said Dean Miller, 58, a resident of Detroit Lakes, Minn., who spends the winter living and working at the Winter Ranch resort in Alamo. “You’ll go to some event down here and you’ll find your neighbor from back home.”The majority of Winter Texans are white and in their early 70s. Many of them voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, and their very presence this winter quietly subverted the president’s assertion that the border is in crisis. They have been coming to the region for years — in some cases, their parents were Winter Texans, too — and the political dynamics and national-emergency rhetoric has no effect on how, or where, they spend their retirement.“We don’t see what you see on TV,” said Terry Goss, the general manager of Victoria Palms, one of the largest Winter Texan communities, with up to 2,500 retirees.What do Winter Texans see, exactly?A slice of border life that looks nothing like what many Americans think of as border life. There was Nathan’s fourth annual Sock Hop at Ranchero Village in Weslaco one Friday. There were fish frys and riverboat tours, line dancing and karaoke sessions, bluegrass acoustic jams and nondenominational church services. At the Winter Ranch resort in Alamo one Monday afternoon, the Winter Ranch Players packed the house with three one-act plays, “The Ethel and Albert Comedies.” At Victoria Palms, Mr. Goss spoke standing next to a poster listing all the sold-out shows at the resort’s ballroom, one of them a Rolling Stones tribute band concert. Victoria Palms is so popular with Canadians that a Victoria Palms reunion is scheduled most summers near Toronto.Margaret Hitzemann, 63, who normally lives in Onamia, Minn., spent the past two months in a townhouse in Port Aransas, near Corpus Christi. One rainy afternoon, she and her husband visited the Mexican tourist town of Nuevo Progreso. They bought crispy chapulines — crickets, a fried delicacy — and went into a pharmacy to buy some cheap medicine.“We don’t take a lot of meds, so we were thinking, ‘Oh, let’s go down and get some cheap Tylenol and Advil and that kind of thing,’” Ms. Hitzemann said. “I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, this isn’t any cheaper than Walmart.’ So we ended up not buying any medications.”In a region with a large Latino population and tolerant attitudes toward immigration — many people have family members on both sides of the border — culture clash with the Northerners is inevitable. The study released by the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley included unedited messages from Winter Texans to local officials, and some of the sharpest comments read: “Be more American, less Mexican. This is not Mexico!” and “Have channel 5 respect Mr. Trump” and “Keep the grass cut, the trash picked up and speak English.”Already, the exodus back north has started. The end of the season for many comes on Thursday, with the annual Winter Texan appreciation day in Nuevo Progreso.For some, the season never ends. There are Converted Texans, former Winter Texans who settle in the valley for good. Kristi Collier, a McAllen native who runs a media and hospitality company that caters to Winter Texans called Welcome Home, Rio Grande Valley, hosts an annual Converted Texan Fiesta in April. (She leads a swearing-in ceremony.)Among the ranks of the converted are Ken and Lois Lane, originally from Anchorage, who started spending winters at Victoria Palms in 2005. They now live there permanently in a double-wide mobile home.“I think the cost of living here is very reasonable, compared to many other places,” said Mr. Lane, 73, a retired power dispatcher for an electrical company.He and his wife visited Nuevo Progreso and hosted their son and his family from Iowa over spring break. The couple is in a unique category: sort of reverse Winter Texans.“The motor home we kept and in the summer when it gets real hot, we go up north,” Mr. Lane said.Manny is one of a team of New York Times journalists currently reporting from the border. Each week they’ll be sharing a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it.Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com.“There are people out there who just say, ‘Send them all back and build a wall.’ But they would be facing empty shelves in the grocery store if that were to happen.”— Mike McMahon, a dairy farmer in upstate New York.The farms of upstate New York are thousands of miles from the southern border, but close enough to the northern one that the Border Patrol has jurisdiction. Farmers’ reliance on undocumented workers had made the region a focal point in the debate over the Trump administration’s border policies, leading to tensions between state politicians of both parties and the federal agents enforcing the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration.Christina Goldbaum, an immigration reporter in The New York Times’s Metro department, explored Mr. McMahon’s story, and those of migrants who work at farms like his, in an article this week. Read more about it here.This week, KPBS, a public radio station in Southern California, launched a new podcast, “Only Here,” about life and culture in San Diego and Tijuana — “the art, food, traditions and culture that exists because of the border,” they write. The first episode profiles a young photographer who is gay and undocumented, and you can listen to it, along with other episodes, here.Podcast creators, like everyone else, have been drawn to stories and conversations about the border. If you prefer your stories in audio form, here are a few more to get you started:• “The Green Line,” produced by the union of Border Patrol agents. The hosts, Art Del Cueto and Brandon Judd, are Border Patrol agents who have been supportive of President Trump’s policies — and both appeared at his side in the White House briefing room in January when he talked about declaring a national emergency to help build a border wall. (The Times has written about them before.)• Last spring, WNYC’s Radiolab ran “Border Project,” a three-part series about a Border Patrol policy that most likely led to a rise, beginning in the late 1990s, in the number of migrants who died while crossing to the United States. It also profiles some of the migrants who made the trek despite it. Listen to all the episodes here.• This episode of PRX’s Radio Diaries, “The Border Wall,” focuses on those strange parts of the border that one woman calls a “no-man’s land,” cut off from their country by a barrier that doesn’t always follow the line it’s meant to.• Our very own “Daily” podcast has many great episodes from the border. Start with a two-part series, “Dispatches From the Border” (Part 1 here and Part 2 here), which follows Azam Ahmed, the Times bureau chief for Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean, and other Times journalists on a trip along the nearly 2,000-mile border with Mexico. Then there’s this episode, “The Scars of Family Separation,” about a migrant father who crossed the border with his daughter. Finally, from last summer, “How Separating Migrant Families Became U.S. Policy” is an interview with Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has helped the president frame his immigration policy.Read earlier installments of Crossing the Border here. Sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pérez-PeñaThe wounded tried to crawl away or lie still, while others ran or crouched behind the dead, but the gunman kept pulling the trigger.He shot fleeing women and girls, and pumped bullet after bullet into piles of motionless men and boys in a house of worship.The man accused of carrying out the worst mass murder in New Zealand’s modern history, one that left 49 people dead and more than 40 others wounded at two mosques in Christchurch, was identified in court documents on Saturday as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28. The suspect, who officials said is an Australian citizen, was charged with one count of murder, and more were expected to come.Three other people were detained by the police, though one was released hours later. An 18-year-old local man was charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will,” but court officials would not elaborate.The horror was designed specifically for an era that has married social media and racism — a massacre apparently motivated by white extremist hatred, streamed live on Facebook and calculated to go viral.The shooting represented a staggering corruption of a form of communication, used innocently by millions, that promised to draw people together but has also helped pry them apart into warring camps. It also shattered a veneer of civility and security in one of the safest and most highly developed countries in the world.A man at the door to Al Noor mosque on Deans Avenue called out “hello, brother,” just before the approaching killer opened fire with a semiautomatic shotgun. Seconds later, a wounded man, trying to crawl away, was shot again at point-blank range.Within moments, terror and chaos gripped the people gathered at the mosque for Friday Prayer, as they ran, screamed and tried to climb the walls around the building. Parents tried to shield their children, others ducked behind or under parked cars, and at least one nearby resident opened her home to shelter people fleeing the mayhem.The Facebook video, shot from the killer’s helmet-mounted camera, and a 74-page statement that the authorities said was written by the gunman, point to an array of possible role models, from racist mass murderers to Oswald Mosley, the 20th century British fascist.Standard white supremacist and far-right nationalist tropes, like fears of a “white genocide,” are sprinkled throughout the statement. There are also elements of a self-flattering reach for larger meaning: references to centuries-ago battles between Christians and Muslims are scrawled on his guns, and on the video he refers to his slaughter of unarmed people as “the firefight.”But the potential clues in the statement appeared to be as much an exercise in misdirection, provocation and “trolling” as a statement of any ideology, making it hard to separate belief from inside jokes among extremists, deliberate baiting and pointless hate.New safeguards developed by tech companies over the last 18 months were not enough to stop the video and statement from being widely posted, on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram. While Facebook and Twitter took down pages thought to be linked to the gunman, the posted content was spread rapidly through other accounts. Some people appeared to be using techniques to evade automated systems that find and delete content.President Trump on Friday described the attack as “a horrible disgraceful thing, horrible act.” But when asked if he saw white nationalism as a rising threat around the world, he said: “I don’t really. I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems, I guess.”Many Western leaders denounced the attack as an act of terrorism, and made a point of stating their support for Muslims.“Through terror attacks that have taken place on U.K. soil we know only too well the pain that such horrifying attacks can cause,” Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain said. “As New Zealand has stood by us so we stand shoulder to shoulder with them, and with Muslims in New Zealand, here in the U.K. and around the world.”Some leaders of Muslim countries had a more pointed take. On Twitter, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey called the attack “the latest example of rising racism and Islamophobia.”Driving his white S.U.V. to the Deans Avenue mosque on Friday afternoon, the gunman played aloud a propaganda song that pays tribute to Radovan Karadzic, the former Bosnian Serb leader who was convicted of genocide and war crimes.Forty-one of the people who died were killed at that mosque. Seven others were killed at the Linwood mosque, about three miles away, and one died at Christchurch Hospital, which lies between the two.New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said on Saturday that a total of five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, were used in the attacks. New Zealand has fairly lax gun laws, but little gun violence.“Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said, though she did not say what that legislation would look like.Ms. Ardern said the gunman had been planning to kill more people when he was apprehended. “It was absolutely his intention to continue his attack,” she said.Two homemade explosives were found in the suspect’s car, the police have said. The attack put the city of almost 400,000 people on lockdown for hours, as the police searched for more suspects, accomplices or bombs.Ms. Ardern said that while children were among the dead, the victims were “predominantly from the ages of 20 to 60-ish — and a large number of men.”Syed Mazharuddin told the New Zealand Herald that he was in the mosque on Linwood Avenue, and that “there were elderly people sitting there praying and he just started shooting at them.”A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.Speaking to reporters on Friday, a shaken Mohammad Nazir haltingly tried to describe what he had seen inside the Deans Avenue mosque, where he said there were “lots of people” lying on the blood-soaked green carpet.“I just heard ‘Help! Help!’ ” he said.He ran behind the building and climbed over a wall into a neighboring yard.Mulki Abdiwahab, an 18-year-old university student, was with her mother in the women’s prayer room at the Deans Avenue mosque when the gunfire began.“I’ve never heard a gunshot before,” she told Radio New Zealand. “I thought at first it was somebody was banging on the window.”“My mom grabbed my hand and then we just ran outside and everyone was in chaos, just running for their lives,” she said.They left behind their shoes, purses and a laptop, and did not stop running until a woman who lives down the street waved them into her house, she said.Later, they learned that her father, who like many victims was in the men’s prayer room, had been wounded.The gunman’s video shows him reloading repeatedly, snapping new ammunition magazines into his assault shotgun. Then he returned to his vehicle, got another gun — a semiautomatic assault rifle — went back into the building and resumed shooting.When he left for good, he fired down the sidewalk in both directions, and down the alleyway where he had parked. He walked up to a wounded woman dressed in black who lay on the pavement crying “help me, help me,” and shot her twice more.He left about six minutes after he had arrived. As he began to drive away, he fired into parked cars with a pump-action shotgun before speeding off.Officials did not make clear whether the Linwood Avenue attack took place before or after the Deans Avenue massacre, or if the same person committed both. The first calls to the police came at about 1:40 p.m.Yama al Nabi was running late to meet his father at the Deans Avenue mosque, when he came on the nightmarish scene of wailing and bleeding people, illuminated by the flashing lights of police cars.He asked survivors about his father, Dawoud Nabi, 65, a native of Afghanistan who had lived in New Zealand since 1977.“Someone said he jumped the fence and said he’s safe,” he told The New York Times. “Then I waited and waited and my daughter called and said he’s dead.”On Saturday morning, his hands shaking, he showed reporters a photo on his phone of his father and his daughter.“Dad was the leader of the Afghan community and welcomed everyone,” he said.He had gone to the courthouse where the accused gunman would appear. “Just want to see his face,” he said.Members of Bangladesh’s national cricket team, who were in Christchurch for a match, were also saved by tardiness, after a news conference delayed their walk to the Deans Avenue mosque.Mohammad Isam, an ESPN reporter covering the team, reported on an ESPN website that at 1:52 he got a terrified call from Tamim Iqbal Khan, one of the Bangladesh cricketers.“There’s shooting here, please save us,” Mr. Khan said, according to Mr. Isam.“I first think that he is playing a prank but he hangs up and calls again — this time, his voice starts to crack,” Mr. Isam wrote. “He says that I should call the police as there’s a shooting going on inside the mosque where they are about to enter.”Mr. Khan wrote on Twitter: “Entire team got saved from active shooters.”Another player, Mushfiqur Rahim, tweeted “we r extremely lucky … never want to see this things happen again … pray for us.”An earlier version of this article transposed the first and second guns used by the suspect in the Al Noor mosque shooting. The first was a semiautomatic shotgun, not a rifle. The second was a semiautomatic rifle, not a shotgun.Reporting was contributed by Jamie Tarabay in Christchurch and Megan Specia in New York.OpinionWajahat AliOpinionSteve BrauniasAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHear tracks by Phoebe Bridgers and Conor Oberst, Dua Lipa, J. Cole and others.By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni RussonelloEvery Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos — and anything else that strikes them as intriguing. Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage.After a six-year gap, Vampire Weekend has re-emerged with a song that wraps misgivings in three-chord elation: first with folksy acoustic-guitar picking, then with gospel-rock piano and congas, later with jammy hints of the Grateful Dead. It all feels jovial until Ezra Koenig’s words register a not-so-oblique dread: “Anybody with a worried mind could never forgive the sight/Of wicked snakes inside a place you thought was dignified/I don’t wanna live like this, but I don’t wanna die.” Meanwhile, anyone seeking meditative sanctuary can click on “120 Minutes of Harmony Hall Guitar” — the opening acoustic guitars simply looping away, adding a modest drone for the second hour. JON PARELESThe lyrics are cryptic, and so is the video, with images of armed men, surveillance screens, captive women and lessons in violence. But there’s no mistaking the urgency of Sam Fender’s desperate vocal, the rising refrain “He will play God” and the syncopated, reverberating guitar note that persists throughout the song, keeping things tense. PARELESFresh from boygenius, her collaboration with Julien Baker and Lucy Dacus, Phoebe Bridgers has teamed up with Conor Oberst (Bright Eyes) as Better Oblivion Community Center, suddenly releasing a full album. It’s folk rock all the way, harking back to the Byrds, Bob Dylan and Ian and Sylvia, with shared lead vocals, intertwined acoustic and electric guitars and, often, a tambourine shaking along. Electric guitars surge and spill over in “Dylan Thomas,” as Bridgers and Oberst sing about power, entertainment and the elusiveness of truth. PARELESFor this movie theme, Dua Lipa honors the plot of “Alita: Battle Angel,” a film based on a post-apocalyptic manga about a human brain resurrected as a cyborg warrior: “This is not a swan song,” she sings, “It’s a new life.” But she also ties it in to the female self-assertion of the rest of her catalog: “I won’t stay quiet,” she sings, her voice swelling, “ ’Cause staying silent’s the same as dying.” Backup chants sound like remnants of past civilizations; the beat is mechanized, cybernetic. The song puts human aspiration in electronic armor. PARELESYes, that Snow. “Con Calma” underscores the endless cycles of borrowing that nourish pop music, messy and unlikely as they may be. In 1992, “Informer,” by the white, Canadian dancehall performer Snow, spent seven weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100. This was an outlier for many reasons, some less obvious than others — Snow had cut his musical teeth in Toronto’s Jamaican community. Over the years, “Informer” has remained, despite occasional mockery, the rare durable, credible example of a song by a white reggae performer. Now, in 2019, reggaeton titan Daddy Yankee, well into the neutralized-pop portion of his career, has built atop it a new song, which is enthusiastic and lighthearted, squeezing something just a little bit too tepid out of something which, in its day, had been the little-bit-too-tepid thing. JON CARAMANICAAgonized and serrated, the new song from Call Me Karizma revives mid-to-late-2000s Warped Tour electro-punk, blends it with emo instincts as refracted through SoundCloud rap, adds in heaping gobs of Marilyn Manson, and tops it off with, hiding in plain sight, a flicker of Yung Joc’s “It’s Goin’ Down.” CARAMANICA“Ecstasy” is an anti-manifesto from Sneaks, the singer, songwriter and producer Eva Moolchan. “I don’t wanna explain,” she whisper-sings, almost as if she’s humming to herself. But meanwhile she’s assembling blips, plinks, a buzzing bass riff, hovering electronic tones and casually intersecting vocal lines into a teasingly enticing track: she’s doing, not telling. PARELESFlorence and the Machine almost — but not entirely — separate two threads of her music with a yin-yang pair of new songs. “Moderation” goes for a hand-clapping, room-shaking Motown-flavored rock-soul stomp — think Martha and the Vandellas — as Florence Welch scoffs at the whole notion of moderation in love. “Haunted House” turns inward instead. It starts and ends something like a parlor song, a piano waltz sung by Welch at her most decorous. But when the chorus arrives and she confesses “I’m not free yet,” she doesn’t hold back the buildup; moderation is, indeed, a struggle. PARELESAs a collaborator and on her own, Julia Michaels has typecast herself as the queen of neurosis, and she’s true to that brand throughout her latest EP, “Inner Monologue Part 1.” In “Happy,” she sings, “Sometimes I think I kill relationships for art,” and adds, “I pay my bills with it.” A reggae-ish beat heaves and slams below her and a backup chorus joins her in her misery, but at the end, as she quietly moans “I just want to be happy,” there are crickets in the mix. PARELESA tsk-tsk masquerading as a chest puff, J. Cole’s “Middle Child” is the beginning of what he’s suggested is a coming onslaught of new music this year. The themes, however, are familiar: Cole’s love-em-but-needle-em relationship with younger rappers is present in full force. But unlike most elders, he’s also willing to paint himself as a student — hence, middle child. Which is why even though this song echoes mid-2010s Drake triumphalism (and also mentions Drake, for good measure), Cole cuts the arrogance with commitment to granular, almost mundane narrative. All tell, no show. CARAMANICAThe saxophonist, flutist and bass clarinetist Eric Dolphy led just five studio sessions in his brief lifetime, yet he’s seen as one of jazz history’s great possibility-expanders — an improviser who squirreled away his masterful abilities under layers of evocative idiosyncrasy, packing his notes with more breath than they could fit, letting them bloom and quiver well beyond their natural pitch. Dolphy’s second-to-last recording session took place in New York in July 1963, with a midsize band, across two days, less than a year before his death at 36. It resulted in a pair of well-reputed albums, “Conversations” and “Iron Man,” but many assumed the complete session recordings were lost. The flutist James Newton — who had held onto a trove of tapes and papers that Dolphy left behind — recently turned them over to Resonance Records, which released 18 of the finest tracks from those 1963 dates on “Musical Prophet: The Expanded 1963 New York Studio Sessions.” Half were previously unissued, including this alternate take of “Jitterbug Waltz,” a Fats Waller classic with a frisky, twirling melody that’s oddly befitting of Dolphy. And mark the trumpeter: It’s the future jazz eminence Woody Shaw, age 18, sounding phenomenal in one of his first professional recording dates. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOLast year’s most awe-inspiring jazz release was “Emanon,” Wayne Shorter’s three-disc masterstroke, much of which he recorded live with his quartet joined by the London Chamber Orchestra. But unless you shelled out for the full boxed set, you probably haven’t heard it yet. Now the digital wait is over — on Friday, Blue Note released the album on streaming platforms. On “Prometheus Unbound,” we hear how skillfully Shorter marshals a string section; he uses the orchestra not only to add strength and harmonic layers, but also to give his wide, intervallic leaps a new dynamic momentum. RUSSONELLOHearing “Trio Tapestry,” the first album from this all-star group, it’s hard not to think back on Joe Lovano’s work in the Paul Motian Trio, another bass-free combo whose history was entwined with ECM Records. Like Motian’s, the new trio’s music drifts slowly into the space around it, gently filling a room with worried air. But the biggest difference between the bands is in the tumbling, unsettled piano of Marilyn Crispell and the warmer, more diatonic guitar of Bill Frisell (the third member of Motian’s trio). On “Rare Beauty,” Lovano’s trio treats his sharp modal melody with a sense of unfettered freedom, moving loosely in and out of step with each other. RUSSONELLOQue Vola brings together three Afro-Cuban percussionists — all members of the Osain del Monte Orchestra — and seven French jazz musicians. The lead single from the group’s self-titled debut is “Calle Luz,” a quick, pattering original that reshapes a rumba rhythm around its jagged, four-horn arrangement. The West African roots of rumba come through in various ways here; amid all the rhythmic and harmonic complexity, you might even hear echoes of Fela Kuti’s Africa ’70 band in the sound of the Rhodes, bass and drums. RUSSONELLOSage Fisher, who records as Dolphin Midwives, uses loops of harp and electronic sounds, and sometimes (though not on this track) her voice, to construct tracks that evolve from ambient Minimalism to something considerably more volatile. “Junglespell” starts out pretty and vaguely Asian, with rippling, overlapping harp motifs. But halfway through, an electronic vortex takes shape, in rhythm-disrupting clusters and miniature alarm bells; a pretty coda can’t soothe everything. PARELESJon Pareles has been The Times's chief pop music critic since 1988. A musician, he has played in rock bands, jazz groups and classical ensembles. He majored in music at Yale University.  @JonPareles Jon Caramanica is a pop music critic for The Times and the host of the Popcast. He also writes the men's Critical Shopper column for Styles. He previously worked for Vibe magazine, and has written for the Village Voice, Spin, XXL and more.  @joncaramanica AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe city’s restaurant scene has evolved since the last Super Bowl here. So look beyond downtown, enjoy the diversity and don’t forget breakfast.By Kim SeversonATLANTA — In 2000, the last time this city hosted the Super Bowl, the St. Louis Rams beat the Tennessee Titans, and Watershed had been frying its famous fried chicken in lard and sweet butter flavored with country ham for only a year.The new Southern food movement that the restaurant in nearby Decatur helped define had not yet moved North. Brooklynites weren’t worshiping biscuits, and American barbecue had not met kimchi. Only a few cooks or writers outside the South were giving serious thought to the connection between Southern food and that of West Africa.Even here, in the booming cultural and commercial center of the American South, diners had only begun to embrace a style of cooking that emphasized seasonality and history over carbohydrates and caricature. Atlanta’s most popular restaurants were local chains dipped in the glitzy, corporate sheen of the Buckhead neighborhood, and high-end steakhouses like Ruth’s Chris and Morton’s were abundant.Now, as the city prepares to show off its new $1.5 billion Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Sunday, when the New England Patriots meet the Los Angeles Rams, Atlanta is a more evolved food town than it was then.Neighborhood beer bars and slick suburban dining rooms alike serve food that shows off Southern agriculture. Food from the region’s vast immigrant population is as celebrated as its local classics.Although diners remain loyal to local entrepreneurs like Fifth Group Restaurants, which started opening reliable spots like South City Kitchen in the 1990s, the city is less impressed by carpetbagging chains. And the ranks of talented young cooks tired of trying to compete in bigger cities continue to grow.Still, Atlanta has yet to find its footing among the nation’s great restaurant cities. Wyatt Williams, who recently quit reviewing restaurants for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, wrote in a parting column this month in Atlanta magazine that the dining scene was in a rut, riding an economic boom that has spawned cynical, money-grabbing restaurants “where the rooms are finely appointed, the menus are deeply predictable, and the cooking is barely passable.”Stephen Satterfield, a former sommelier in San Francisco who founded the food magazine Whetstone, grew up in Atlanta. During a recent trip home, he described Atlanta as an insecure food town, obsessed with how it measures up against cities with outsize culinary reputations.“It pains me to say it, but here everyone is well-intentioned and there is plenty of capital and resources, so I don’t understand why there aren’t more places that feel of the moment,” he said.Plenty of Atlanta chefs and diners would disagree, albeit politely. The trick, they advise visitors, is drilling down into the right parts of town.“You’ve got to get out of downtown,” said the chef Kevin Gillespie, a former Top Chef contestant who has three restaurants here. “Get in your Uber and go to a neighborhood. That’s where you’ll find the great stuff. You’re going to leave the city with a completely different idea of what Atlanta really is.”Of all the local chefs scrambling to be part of the Super Bowl, Mr. Gillespie is the M.V.P. He runs Gamechanger, a concession inside the Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where his “closed on Sunday” chicken sandwich — a homage to the faith-based policy that keeps Chick-fil-A restaurants shuttered on Sundays, even Super Bowl Sundays — has helped make it the highest-grossing food vendor in the arena.He is also one of three chefs whom Arthur Blank, a founder of Home Depot who bought the Atlanta Falcons in 2002, approved to cook on Thursday for the N.F.L. owners’ dinner, a traditional meal usually held at a fancy restaurant or a well-appointed home. Mr. Blank is staging the dinner at the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, not far from the stadium.“It talks to the history of the city and the great connection the N.F.L. has made with the players around issues surrounding social justice,” Mr. Blank said. “We’ve moved from protest to progress.”(Some critics have complained that all three chefs are white men, though Aaron Jefferson, a general manager from the restaurant Iberian Pig who is African-American, was later added to oversee cocktails and wine.)Mr. Gillespie cautions visitors to not expect a city as explicitly Southern as, say, Charleston, S.C. “It’s not ‘Gone With the Wind’ down here,” he said. “Atlanta is a city that has always been about business. It’s not as ‘Hee Haw’-y as people think it might be.”Rather, Atlanta is a metropolis filled with a lot of people from other places. The city’s population is less than 500,000, but the region, which includes the sprawling suburbs, is home to about 5.9 million. People from small Southern towns have moved here for better jobs, and others from big American cities have come seeking less stress and a lower cost of living. The region’s mix includes immigrants from Mexico, India, South Korea and Vietnam.That influx feeds a mix of cuisines, many of them represented in hundreds of restaurants and markets on Buford Highway, the biggest concentration of which starts at the city’s northeastern edge and continues for about 10 miles. Taking measure of the highway’s offerings is a heroic task, but good resources to consult are We Love BuHi, a website and Instagram feed dedicated to the strip, and the local food writer Christiane Lauterbach’s dispatches on Twitter and in Atlanta magazine. Two favorites are the homey Korean grandma food at Yet Tuh and the terrific sambal-sauced okra and noodle and rice dishes at Food Terminal, a modern Malaysian restaurant that shares a parking lot with an expansive multicultural supermarket, a Chinese barbecue spot, a Viet-Cajun seafood restaurant and a tofu house.Atlanta has rarely met a restaurant trend it didn’t like, and right now that translates to food halls. Some of the best restaurants in town have been carved out of restored industrial spaces. Among them is Watchman’s, in the Krog Street Market, a cheery, Cuban-influenced restaurant that turns sustainably harvested Southern seafood into dishes like grilled fish collars bathed in Alabama white barbecue sauce and dappled with salsa verde. Its perfect daiquiris have developed a loyal following.Next door is the Ticonderoga Club, a cozy restaurant whose menu ranges from 48 ounces of grilled, sous-vide chuck roast to a coconut-braised eggplant dish that the chef David Bies picked up in Bali. Students of the Southern cocktail scene make regular pilgrimages to its tiny bar.The grandest food hall of them all is inside the sprawling brick Ponce City Market, a former Sears distribution center developed into a mixed-use complex by the team that created Chelsea Market in New York.Many of Atlanta’s biggest names in food have a presence here. Hugh Acheson pumps out coffee and fat squares of toast slathered with fresh local cow’s milk cheese and jam at Spiller Park, and Hector Santiago sells a fine medianoche sandwich at El Super Pan. Linton Hopkins (one in the trio of chefs cooking for the N.F.L. owners) offers a stacked cheeseburger at H&F Burger, and fried chicken and biscuits next door at a little stand called Hop’s Chicken.Anne Quatrano, the chef who began Atlanta’s farm-to-table era at her flagship restaurant Bacchanalia 25 years ago, sells fresh Gulf shrimp and oysters at W.H. Stiles Fish Camp.Ms. Quatrano, chairwoman of the James Beard Foundation’s awards committee, remains a levelheaded fan of the city’s food. Like Mr. Gillespie, she says some of the best food is found in modest, neighborhood restaurants.“There’s a lot of young talent here,” she said. “Some of it’s raw, but it’s still good. That makes for really good dining at lot of the smaller places.”One is Banshee, a boisterous restaurant inside a former lesbian bar in the charmingly scruffy East Atlanta neighborhood. Tables are packed with diners who swipe fry bread through smears of pepperoni butter, and debate whether the Sichuan-spiced pork osso buco is better than the braised onion caramelle with braised beef cheeks.At Tiny Lou’s, inside the newly refurbished Hotel Clermont, not far from Ponce City Market, Jeb Aldrich delivers a smart take on French classics, and the pastry chef Claudia Martinez makes a crêpes suzette cake that customers can’t seem to stop talking about.Atlanta also is a big breakfast town, which is why in a few weeks Ms. Quatrano will open Pancake Social, a 120-seat, all-day breakfast place in Ponce City Market. Until then, Java Jive, Highland Bakery and Home Grown, whose pancakes and chili cheese grits are worth enduring the inevitable line, all make for a fine breakfast field trip.And don’t forget Waffle House. The original restaurant in nearby Avondale Estates has been turned into the company’s museum, but there are plenty of others in full operation. (Pro tip: Order your hash browns scattered, smothered and covered, with country ham and a pecan waffle cooked dark on the side.)A hungry visitor also would do well to stroll the Atlanta BeltLine, a 22-mile loop of railroad bed that is slowly being transformed into an urban promenade not unlike the High Line in New York, except with a lot more craft breweries.Along the well-developed section that winds through the Old Fourth Ward, you’ll find Nina & Rafi, a new restaurant that serves a chicken parm that has passed the test of more than one New Yorker, old-fashioned square pizzas topped with sizzling pepperoni cups, and crunchy-crusted Detroit-style pies. Expense-account diners can still get a taste of that Buckhead swank at Atlas, in the St. Regis Atlanta hotel. The chef, Christopher Grossman, has a French Laundry pedigree and the quiet, luxe dining room is hung with masterworks, many of them from the art collection of Joe Lewis, the billionaire behind the Tavistock Group, a private investment company that owns the hotel. Next door is Umi, whose modern take on Japanese food would be at home in New York or Los Angeles.Many visitors will be on the hunt for the kind of Southern food best eaten with your hands. Barbecue is not hard to find here, but Bryan Furman of B’s Cracklin’ Barbecue is the only pit master turning out whole-hog barbecue from heirloom-breed hogs. The Busy Bee Café, a half-mile from the stadium, has been around since the 1940s, and remains a reliable practitioner of the Southern staple known as the meat and three. Go for the oxtails or the fried chicken, and take whichever vegetable sides dishes the server recommends. The new Southern food movement has been nurtured for 10 years at Miller Union, which serves hyper-seasonal dishes alongside the most interesting wine list in town. Or head to Decatur, a small city that abuts Atlanta proper, and try Mr. Gillespie’s Revival, which serves the kind of food your Southern grandmother might make if she shopped only at the farmers’ market.One last piece of advice: Don’t sleep on the wings.“Wings have become a real part of Atlanta culture,” said Deborah VanTrece, the chef and owner of Twisted Soul Cookhouse & Pours. Ms. VanTrece, who will set up a grits bar and make deviled eggs for 3,000 as part of an N.F.L.-sponsored game-day tailgate party, is a former American Airlines flight attendant who used to eat chicken wings that were delivered to the cockpit when flights took the crew to Buffalo.“We thought that was everything, but now wings in Atlanta have taken on a life of their own,” she said. Her daughter, who is 26, has long debates with her friends over which of the dozens of places to get wings is the best.Wings are now so important to the city that the classic Atlanta beer-and-wing spot, J. R. Crickets, was invited to sell them in the State Farm Arena, the home of the Atlanta Hawks, which recently had a $200 million renovation. (Mr. Furman sells his barbecue there, too.)Insiders order lemon pepper wet, a style of wings that got a star turn on the FX series “Atlanta.”“Atlanta is an easy city to underestimate,” Ms. VanTrece said. “Sometimes I think it’s because the South in general gets a bad rap, but compared to 20 years ago, it’s night and day. You just have to make a little effort.”Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misstated some ingredients in the fried chicken at the original Watershed restaurant. The chicken was fried in lard and sweet butter, not peanut oil.Kim Severson is a Southern-based correspondent who covers the nation's food culture and contributes to NYT Cooking. She has written four books and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment.  @kimseverson • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Margalit FoxW. S. Merwin, a formidable American poet who for more than 60 years labored under a formidable poetic yoke: the imperative of using language — an inescapably concrete presence on the printed page — to conjure absence, silence and nothingness, died on Friday at his home near Haiku-Pauwela, Hawaii. He was 91.His death was confirmed by a spokeswoman for his publisher, Copper Canyon Press.Mr. Merwin was one of the most highly decorated poets in the nation, and very likely the world. He was the United States poet laureate from 2010 to 2011; won two Pulitzer Prizes, a National Book Award and a spate of other honors; and was lauded for his volumes of prose and translations of poetry from a Babel of languages.He was also one of the most prolific poets of his generation, his work appearing often in The New Yorker, The Atlantic Monthly, Harper’s Magazine and elsewhere. After the release of his first collection, when he was in his mid-20s, he went on to publish nearly three dozen volumes of poetry, along with essays, short fiction, memoirs and translations of Dante, Pablo Neruda, Osip Mandelstam and other poets.In later years Mr. Merwin was equally known for his work as a conservationist — in particular for his painstaking restoration of depleted flora, including hundreds of species of palm, on the remote former pineapple plantation in Hawaii where he made his home. He had lived there, in blissful near-solitude, since the 1970s, refusing to answer the telephone.Mr. Merwin’s ardor for the natural world took frequent root in his poetry. But while for many poets nature begets odes, for him it was far more likely to inspire elegies. In “For a Coming Extinction,” part of his acclaimed 1967 verse collection, “The Lice,” he wrote:Gray whale Now that we are sending you to The End That great god Tell him That we who follow you invented forgiveness And forgive nothing I write as though you could understand And I could say it One must always pretend something Among the dying When you have left the seas nodding on their stalks Empty of you Tell him that we were made On another day Stylistically, Mr. Merwin’s mature work was known for metrical promiscuity; stark, sometimes epigrammatic language; and the frequent use of enjambment — the poetic device in which a phrase breaks over two consecutive lines, without intervening punctuation.“It is as though the voice filters up to the reader like echoes from a very deep well, and yet it strikes his ear with a raw energy,” the poet and critic Laurence Lieberman wrote, discussing “The Lice,” a collection whose bitter contents were widely understood as a denunciation of the Vietnam War. He added:“The poems must be read very slowly, since most of their uncanny power is hidden in overtones that must be listened for in silences between lines, and still stranger silences within lines.”The themes that preoccupied Mr. Merwin most keenly were those that haunt nearly every poet: the earth, the sea and their myriad creatures; the cycle of the seasons; myth and spirituality (he was a practicing Buddhist); personal history and memory; and, above all, life and its damnable evanescence.Yet there was about his work an intensity of purpose — heightened by a formal style not quite like anyone else’s — that, his champions maintained, gave it a fervor often described as oracular. A “post-Presbyterian Zen poet and channeler of ancient paradoxes,” The Los Angeles Times called him in 2007.In “Leviathan,” from his 1956 collection, “Green With Beasts,” Mr. Merwin evokes the epic verse of old through his strategic use of alliteration, the central organizing principle of Anglo-Saxon and Old Norse poetry:The hulk of him is like hills heaving Dark, yet as crags of drift-ice, crowns cracking in thunder, Like land’s self by night black-looming, surf churning and trailing Along his shores’ rushing, shoal-water boding About the dark of his jaws; and who should moor at his edge And fare on afoot would find gates of no gardens, But the hill of dark underfoot diving, Closing overhead, the cold deep, and drowning. Some critics indicted Mr. Merwin’s later work for trafficking in a level of abstraction bordering on the obscure. It was rendered even less accessible, they complained, by the fact that by the late 1960s he had jettisoned punctuation almost entirely. (Mr. Merwin had his reasons, which spoke to the very heart of his lifelong poetic program.)But most reviewers praised his relentless deployment of poetry as a talisman against the void; the emotional ferocity beneath the cool, polished surface of his lines; and his use of language so pure and immediate that it could attain translucence.“The intentions of Merwin’s poetry are as broad as the biosphere yet as intimate as a whisper,” Peter Davison, the longtime poetry editor of The Atlantic, wrote there in 1997. “He conveys in the sweet simplicity of grounded language a sense of the self where it belongs, floating between heaven, earth and underground.”Though the stylistic hallmarks of Mr. Merwin’s work changed appreciably over time, his abiding preoccupations — dissolution, absence, loss — remained nearly constant from the beginning.This bewildered some early reviewers. Elegiac poetry, they argued, was no fit subject for a man not yet out of his 20s. What, after all, could the young Mr. Merwin have to be elegiac about?A great deal, as it turned out.William Stanley Merwin was born in New York City on Sept. 30, 1927. (He chose to be known by his initials at the start of his poetic career: It seemed to him to be, à la Auden and Eliot, what poets did.)His mother had been orphaned very young. She later lost her brother and her first child, Mr. Merwin’s older brother, who died shortly after birth.The weight of those losses, Mr. Merwin said long afterward, pervaded every aspect of the family culture. As he wrote, making a rare foray into rhyme, in “Testimony,” from his 1999 volume “The River Sound”: those were her deaths before my day by that time she could turn to hear outside the voices on her way a stillness only partly here and whatever she would hold dear giving herself up to its care she looked beyond it without fear toward what she felt was waiting there Young William was reared in Union City, N.J., and Scranton, Pa., where his father, a Presbyterian minister, preached. Besotted with language from a very young age, he wrote his first verse, hymns for his father’s congregation, at 5. (“I was very disappointed that they weren’t used in church,” Mr. Merwin told The Paris Review in 1987.)To their son’s early dismay, his parents were possessed of incurious minds and unpoetic souls. As Mr. Merwin wrote in “Native Trees”:Neither my father nor my mother knew the names of the trees where I was born what is that I asked and my father and mother did not hear they did not look where I pointed surfaces of furniture held the attention of their fingers and across the room they could watch walls they had forgotten where there were no questions no voices and no shade Worse still, the elder Mr. Merwin was capricious and cold.“During my early childhood he had been distant, unpredictable and harsh,” Mr. Merwin wrote in his memoir “Summer Doorways” (2005). “He had punished me fiercely for things I had not known were forbidden, when the list of known restrictions was already long and oppressive. I was told regularly that I loved him, as I was told that I loved God and Jesus, and I did not know at the time that the names for much of my feeling about him were really dread and anger.”Small wonder, perhaps, that the son grew up to become an explorer of absence and a repairer of dissolution and ruin — on his Hawaiian homestead; of a derelict stone farmhouse in southwest France, where he lived at midcentury with his second wife, Dido Milroy; and, to the extent that the medium affords such redress, in poetry.At 16, Mr. Merwin entered Princeton on a scholarship. There he began to read and write poetry in earnest, studying with the poet and critic R. P. Blackmur and his teaching assistant, a young poet named John Berryman.At 17, during World War II, Mr. Merwin enlisted in the Navy but realized immediately that he had “made a terrible mistake,” as he told NPR in 2008. A pacifist, he declared himself a conscientious objector and was consigned for about a year to the psychiatric ward of a Boston naval hospital.Returning to Princeton, he received his bachelor’s degree in 1948; married his first wife, Dorothy Jeanne Ferry; and stayed on to do graduate work in Romance languages.Needing gainful employment — a chronic occupational condition for poets — Mr. Merwin decamped with his wife for Europe, where he worked as a tutor to the children of the rich and famous, among them, in Majorca, the son of the poet Robert Graves.He moved on to London, where he worked as a translator. After his marriage to Ms. Ferry ended in divorce, he wed Ms. Milroy, a ferocious, proprietary Englishwoman 15 years his senior, with whom he collaborated on a verse play. (“Dido’s ex-husband said she always wanted to own a poet,” Mr. Merwin told The New York Times in 1995.)Returning to the United States, he served as a poet in residence at the Poets’ Theater in Cambridge, Mass., and fell in with the cohort of Boston-area poets around Robert Lowell.In 1952, Mr. Merwin’s first collection, “A Mask for Janus,” was awarded the Yale Younger Poets Prize. A formative award in the field, the prize was judged in those years by W. H. Auden. The poems in the collection, displaying fairly conventional scansion and suffused with mythic references from Classical tradition, ancient sagas and oral verse, typify Mr. Merwin’s early style.“Where I came by torchlight there is dawn-song,” one work, “Sestina,” begins. It continues:Leaves remembering, sudden as a name Recalled from nowhere, remembering morning, Fresh wind in high grass, cricket on plowshare, Whisper of stream in the green-shadowed place, Thrush and tanager keeping season. Mr. Merwin and his wife returned to Europe, eventually settling into the old farmhouse in the Dordogne region. He reprised their time there in “The Lost Upland” (1992), a semi-autobiographical collection of short stories.By the late 1960s, the couple had separated — they would later divorce — and Mr. Merwin, now an established poet, had moved to New York. In his mature style, the diffuse mythic imagery of his earlier work is supplanted by harder-edged invocations of the here and now. The meter is faster and looser, and, stripped of punctuation and most capitalization, his lines hurtle with sheer oral abandon.“Punctuation basically has to do with prose and the printed word,” he said in the Paris Review interview. “I came to feel that punctuation was like nailing the words onto the page. Since I wanted instead the movement and lightness of the spoken word, one step toward that was to do away with punctuation.”Mr. Merwin received his first Pulitzer Prize in 1971 for his collection “The Carrier of Ladders.” The volume epitomized his concern with absence.“Now it is clear to me that no leaves are mine,” a poem from the collection, “Now It Is Clear,” begins:no roots are mine that wherever I go I will be a spine of smoke in the forest and the forest will know it we will both know it. Mr. Merwin publicly announced his intention to donate the thousand-dollar Pulitzer award to antiwar causes. That drew censure from Auden, who, in an open letter in The New York Review of Books, said that he considered the politicizing of the award unseemly.In reply, Mr. Merwin wrote:“If I had behaved, in the circumstances, as though I thought that the only permissible response to the award was silence, there would have been real grounds for questioning my respect for those connected with the giving of it. Is it, after all, dishonoring the present distinction to use it to register once again an abhorrence at being swept along, as we are, and most of the time anonymously, in this evil?”In the mid-1970s, Mr. Merwin went to Hawaii to study with the Zen master Robert Aitken. He remained there, purchasing some 19 acres on a remote part of Maui called Haiku — an apt place for a poet if ever there was one — where he set out to create a Walden in the Pacific.When Mr. Merwin bought the property in the late 1970s, it was distressed and barren. Decades earlier, it had been deforested, overgrazed and then “pinappled,” as he described it, forging a verb as perhaps only a poet can — an act of agricultural imperialism that had denuded the land of its native foliage.He married Paula Schwartz in 1983, and with her he tenderly husbanded the land, planting an effusion of flora. In particular, he planted palms — more than 2,700 trees, representing nearly 500 species, resulting in one of the largest palm collections in the world — their massed common names reading like found poetry.There were monkeypods, “planted as seedlings no taller than chives,” as Mr. Merwin wrote, in impeccable dactylic tetrameter, in an essay in “What Is a Garden?,” which centers on his work in Hawaii. (Published in 2015, the book comprises Mr. Merwin’s poems and prose, with photographs by Larry Cameron.)There were also Parlor Palm and Ivory Cane; Aren Gelora and Bedang Dawn Noda Noda; Solitary Sugar, Weeping Cabbage, Fishtail Lawyer Cane; and scores of others.In 2010, the couple established the Merwin Conservancy, dedicated to the continued preservation of their house and garden.Life in Hawaii gave rise to many poetic works, notably Mr. Merwin’s book-length narrative poem “The Folding Cliffs.” Published in 1998, it tells the story, based on a historical incident, of a 19th-century Hawaiian couple whose lives are sundered by leprosy.Mr. Merwin won a National Book Award in 2005 for “Migration: New and Selected Poems” and his second Pulitzer Prize in 2009 for “The Shadow of Sirius.” In “To Paula in Late Spring,” a poem from that collection, he wrote:Let me imagine that we will come again when we want to and it will be spring we will be no older than we ever were the worn griefs will have eased like the early cloud through which the morning slowly comes to itself and the ancient defenses against the dead will be done with and left to the dead at last the light will be as it is now in the garden that we have made here these years together of our long evenings and astonishment Mr. Merwin’s other laurels include the inaugural Tanning Prize from the Academy of American Poets; the Bollingen Prize for Poetry from Yale; the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Writers’ Award; the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize from the Poetry Foundation; and the PEN Translation Prize.Mr. Merwin’s wife died in 2017. He is survived by two stepsons, Matthew Carlos Schwartz and the novelist John Burnham Schwartz; two grandchildren; and a sister, Ruth Moser.Among his other books are the poetry collections “The Moving Target” (1963), “The Compass Flower” (1977), “The Rain in the Trees” (1988) and “The Moon Before Morning” (2014); a memoir, “Unframed Originals” (1982); and an essay collection, “The Ends of the Earth” (2004).In later years, with Mr. Merwin’s eyesight failing, Paula Merwin became his amanuensis, taking down new poems at his dictation. The resulting volume, “Garden Time,” his final collection of poems, was published in 2016.Like nearly all of Mr. Merwin’s work, “Garden Time” is shot through with valediction. Yet the poems it contains differ from the all-encompassing elegies of his early verse. This time, it is apparent, they are a requiem for something far closer to home.In “Black Cherries,” a poem from the collection, Mr. Merwin wrote:Late in May as the light lengthens toward summer the young goldfinches flutter down through the day for the first time to find themselves among fallen petals cradling their day’s colors in the day’s shadows of the garden beside the old house after a cold spring with no rain not a sound comes from the empty village as I stand eating the black cherries from the loaded branches above me saying to myself Remember this Ana Fota contributed reporting.Advertisement